He teak nee aly 




























+6 : 
¢-eti*ly o 
..? P 
so a] 
ot a 
yy *.4 6 “) 
es a4% 
et ads aT et ; 
a ree 7 g 
; or) ‘ 
oe 4 " 
+«"3 * 
- ma) 
a f . 
- 7 . ‘ 
. ee ee 
. | ot 
ar ee ae 
ete Y , 
ee’ 
em Bre. ® 
+s, Y 
ot a . 
L Po J 
’ . re.? ‘ 
“+s Oe ied | 
: . he ee 
_ * 
‘ i | 
r . 
a a eh J 
« , 
* 
x . a 
S ~ re 
.’ ' . ot”. S 28 
a " 
wee e'-< 
eo - am r to . 
AS a LJ * 
’ . A . 
_ ’ . - 
oe , * a 
‘ v . . * P 
‘ . ~ 
, " a of ¥ 
A ns x * 
. . . ra f > 
or . . 
. . . 
. 
eS : 
et . . , ; . Fr . ‘ Oe ; . 
A * . 7 » - * ° F 4 . a 
**, S ] YT a , > a " ’ . 
* S . . . a . r Oe | 
° >) ° s . r . 
es ‘ . . - . S s . ‘ 
~~" : S . . f . 7 , 
M4 yi ° ; ‘ 
] y 4 i ee ; 
a . " ‘ . . 
o . . 
° " ° ‘ - - 
. " . o - 7 Ps 
J . . » = 9 ~ ry 
S i . S . ° A . . a 
e% " . C " L " oa 
U ° . “ , , . . > 
‘ “> . . 
° 5 ; ; 
*. . ee . . ‘ . 
. _ " ; " ’ ‘ es A ee ; : 
’ ' «* “ew, : ; . ° 
a - ’ rm " 
te . S : . . 7 u , . 
v. . . ¥ od oT y " 
, S - ’ . be 
, , ‘ - ' 
, a “ 
P " . aA P r 
s . ; ‘ bs . : p . 
. 4 “ . PY . . 
= Ms 7. . ° 
7 *. , a ° fl 
, . » re 
oI ° ‘ n ° a 
Le ° = P - , 
F ms >. . n . “ . 
" ° . o e , 
oT - P Mi ’ . 
. , . e , 
. " r ‘ 
. ’ . Ss Ls 
. , - 
rn > F . ‘ 
. . m 
. 
, , a 
. . , > 
’ . . wr ° < 
: P , rn . m4 
Ca - 
" r , - - - , ny 
"4° we? fe ea Pe ’ ' . ae ) > .. 5 atts a} ' 
- a Ms wea e' ‘ a " tr . : our _ ft 
. . i ir i, vey: ‘ He 








Mr ia 


‘ 
- 





er ed ort 
de 


é 


*_-¢ ine rks Pv 
beter ha thls ‘ehabdl rh | 





a 


viahssinimtaedy Lr 





ine 






Ce ed Ee a] 





‘spatiale wipe orl 





May 


Frere reper hone eT 














Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2008 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/dramaticopinionsO1 shawuoft 


DRAMATIC 
OPINIONS 
AND ESSAYS 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS 
AND ESSAYS WITH AN 
APOLOGY BY BERNARD 
SHAW 


CONTAINING AS WELL 
A WORD ON THE DRAMATIC 
OPINIONS AND ESSAYS OF BER- 
NARD SHAW BY JAMES HUNEKER 


VOLUME ONE 


NEW YORK: BRENTANO’S 
MCMXVI 


Copyright by Brentano's 
1906 


Copyright by Brentano's 
1907 


ENTERED AT STATIONERS HALL 


All riyhts reserved 


Presswosk sr Tar Universrry Press, Camenipes, U.8.A. 


CONTENTS 


VOLUME I 


~ 


PAGE 
A Worp on THE DramatTic OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


oF BERNARD SHAW BY JAMES HUNEKER. . 1X 
THe AuTHoRr’s APOLOGY BY BERNARD SHAW... = XxXi 
Braves OF THE Rinc .....-..+++s6-s 1 
EW EELAYS . 5. 6 5 5 a 8 lt tl a 
BORG THUE 5 2 5. ew ek wt tl LS 
TORS OHAKESPEARE! . . . . 6 5 we te 24 
An Otp New Puiay anp a New Otp ONE... . 32 
IiMReeEINeEROS New Pray ........ + 40 
Tue INDEPENDENT THEATRE REPENTS .. . 48 
SIR 55 
PVPeEHE LHEATRES . . . . 1 s © © © 8 we 64 
Mivowban PrAys . .. . 1. 2. 1 se ew ew 2 
SPANISH TRAGEDY AND EncuisH Farce... . 81 
Mr. Invinc Taxes Parecoric ....... 90 
Tue Two Latest Comepirs ........ 100 
A New Lapy Macsetru anp a New Mrs. Exss- 

SNAea 5, Se sa we we ee, LOT 
Se DOODIEDOM . . sume «™ « « » » » « «= s LI6 
MOM AYS . . s ees 2 6 s 2 6 ew ew we 6) 64S 
Duse AND BERNHARDT ........... %Id4 


vI CONTENTS 


La Princesse LOINTAINE 

Mr. Datry FossiLizes 

Poor SHAKESPEARE! 

Tovsours Daty 

Tue Season’s Morar . 

RoMEO AND JULIET 

Pinero as HE Is ActTED 

Tue Cunt Winow 

More MAasrTeERPIECES 

Tue New MacpaLeENn AND THE OLD 
Tritsby AnD “ L’?Ami pes FEMMEs ”’ 
THE Case FOR THE Critic-DRAMATIST 
MANXSOME AND TRADITIONAL . 
Tue Divipep Way 

Totp You So 

THE OLtp ACTING AND THE New . 
Mr. Joon Hare 

OnE oF THE Worst . 

New Year Dramas . 

Pays oF TIE WEEK 

MicHarL AND His Lost ANGEL 
CHURCH AND THE STAGE . 

Dear Harp or My Country! . 
Tue TaiLor AND THE STAGE 

Two PLays 

PINERO AND Grunpy on G. B. S. 


Tre Rerurn or Mrs. Pat . 


PAGE 


143 
153 
160 
168 
177 
185 
194 
205 
213 
219 
228 
237 
244 
250 
259 
268 
276 
285 
292 
300 
309 
318 
327 
334 
342 
349 
357 


CONTENTS 


Borrep HEROINE 

Mary ANDERSON . 

NIETZSCHE IN ENGLISH 

Two Easter PIECES 

PuncH AND Jupy AGAIN . 

THe ImmortTat WILLIAM . 

THe Farcicat ComMepy OuTBREAK 
Henry IV 

ReEsuRRECTION PIE 


G. B. S. on CLEMENT ScoTt 


Vil 
PAGE 


366 
374 
382 
390 
398 
405 
415 
423 
434 
442 











A WORD ON THE 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 
OF BERNARD SHAW 


BY 
JAMES HUNEKER 


I 
ew book is composed of selections from the dra- 


matic criticisms of Bernard Shaw, which ap- 

peared in the London Saturday Review, begin- 
ning January 5th, 1895, and ending May 21st, 1898 — 
a notable period in the history of that journal, for it 
inaugurated the regime of Frank Harris, and the ad- 
vent of such brilliant writers as Shaw, Harris, MacColl, 
Runciman, Cunninghame Graham, and other distin- 
guished spirits. Bernard Shaw did not burst like a 
meteor upon the British metropolis; he was known and 
admired in certain circles before he took to the cart and 
trumpet. He was a bold man in the ranks of Socialists; 
he wrote novels and plays; he criticized music and pic- 
tures and, as he confesses, he lived through it all; in- 
deed, he waxed strong therefrom. But he admits that 
the theatre nearly killed him. For over three years he 
sat in the seat of the critical mighty and filled his eyes 
and ears with bad, mad, and mediocre plays. His fa- 
mous hob-nailed Alpine shoes worn for the purpose of 
tramping London picture galleries, failed him in the 
theatre. His soul grew soggy, his bones softened; and 
after an accident he threw over his self-imposed task 

1X 


x INTRODUCTION 


with a gasp of relief and the stalls knew him no more. 
He now produces plays instead of rowing in the galleys 
with the critical chain-gang; why cannonade cock- 
shafers when you can demonstrate that the possession 
of the critical faculty does not oust the creative! 

But his criticisms still live. They are as alive to-day 
as a decade ago, a sure test of their value; theatrical 
chronicling is seldom of an enduring character. It is 
the man ambushed behind the paragraph, the Shaw in 
the woodpile, with his stark individuality, that makes 
these criticisms delightful, and irritating and sugges- 
tive. I pretend to hear the clattering of those hob- 
nailed Alpine shoes in his criticisms as they unroll be- 
fore us, some violent, many ironic, all interesting and 
erudite. 

We decry impressionistic criticism, and lift reverent 
eyes before them that pace academic groves. But the 
difference is largely a fanciful one —not as real as 
Stendhal’s wicked definition of Classic and Romantic. 
Dr. William Barry wisely says that “ the whole art of 
judgment is faithful impression.” All criticism is per- 
sonal, and neither academic nor impressionistic criti- 
cism should be taken too seriously. Anatole France has 
proved that one may be both wise and witty while sailing 
his soul in quest of masterpicces. A man’s ponderous 
learning is of no more value than the superficial skating 
of some merry emotional blade over the dramatic ice. 
The main point is — particularly in dramatie criticism 
—whether the writer holds our attention. Otherwise 
his work has no excuse for existence. Be as profound 
as you please — but be pleasing. Nature abhors an 
absolute; and there is no absolute in dramatic criti- 
cism. It is an exotic growth and as inutile as politics. 
Now Shaw always holds one’s attention, nay, grips it, 


INTRODUCTION xl 


and at times rudely chokes it into submission. His 
utterances are male, forceful and modern. 

The chief need now is for some responsible person to 
swear that he has seen Bernard Shaw in the flesh and 
thus give the lie to the circulated report that there is no 
such man. Don’t smile. Not so long ago his identity 
was seriously questioned in a well-known London daily 
newspaper. Shaw was said to be a syndicate; the fabri- 
cation of some clever charlatan; a pen, not a human. 
I am exceedingly happy to assure you that Bernard 
Shaw, like the great god Pan, is alive. I have viewed 
him and he acted like a modest man. I met him but 
twice. If I knew him better I would not be able to 
write with such facility of him and his ideas. Doubt- 
less my Shaw is not the real Shaw —but what is the 
real Shaw? Can Shaw answer that question himself? 
In his preface to “ The Quintessence of Ibsenism,” he 
challenged Ibsen on the same score. 

“The existence of a discoverable and perfectly defi- 
nite thesis in a poct’s work by no means depends on the 
completeness of his own intellectual consciousness of it.” 
Thus Mr. Shaw. Nor, by the same token, does his per- 
sonality. My Shaw may be not your Shaw, or Shaw’s 
Shaw, yet he is a perfectly viable person, a man of 
wrath and humors, a fellow of infinite wit, learned with- 
out pedantry, and of a charm — if one finds caviar and 
paprika charming. Perhaps that autobiography of his 
— to be published he says fifty years after his death — 
will clear up all our cloudy conceptions of this Boojum 
who may turn out, after all, to be a Snark. Like the 
late poet, Paul Verlaine, there are days when Shaw 
wears his demon mask to frighten bores away. In 
reality he is excessively angelic. All the rest is grimace. 


xi INTRODUCTION 


II 


By this time the world is acquainted with the Shaw 
opinions, the Shaw plays, novels, prefaces and the 
Shavian philosophy. If not, then it is no fault of the 
illustrious G. B. S. He has toiled for publicity. He 
acknowledges the fact. And there is no denying that 
such muscularity in behalf of one’s personality must 
have proved mortifying to a man of Shaw’s retiring na- 
ture; he remarks somewhere that he is “ congenitally 
shy.” Yet when popularity came he fought against it. 
He metaphorically twiddled the fingers of scorn in the 
face of a credulous and eager public. Like Richard 
Wagner Bernard Shaw insulted the English world only 
to capture, in the end, its suffrage, its sympathy, its 
admiration. Little wonder, then, there are moments 
when he doubts himself, his mission, even his originality. 
Success during one’s lifetime is not always the reward 
of genius. 

If you wish the entire solution of that puzzle which 
once kept London up late o’ nights trying to solve it, 
read with care the judgment passed by Mr. Shaw’s phy- 
sician upon the eyes of his distinguished patient. ‘This 
eminent authority on optics found the Shaw vision nor- 
mal. Therefore like the world at large? Not at all — 
I quote from memory — replied, in effect, the medical 
man. Normal eyesight is possessed by about ten per 
cent of humanity. The remainder, presumably, being 
abnormal. By a swift transposition of vision to intel- 
lectual judgment Mr. Shaw claimed the gift of seeing 
things differently and better — Ah, the canny Irishman. 

Let us succumb to this assertion, for upon it depends 
the validity of my argument — and also explains Shaw 
to the universe at large and to Shaw in particular. The 


INTRODUCTION xii 


Shaw eye and brain being perfectly normal, it is safe, 
therefore, to assume that the Shaw verdicts upon life 
are equally so. Ibsen swears the minority is always 
right; but here is a minority with a vengeance; it is a 
more aristocratic court of supremacy than M. Huys- 
mans’ “dozen superior persons scattered throughout 
the universe.” However, let us agree to accept the 
Shavian self-valuation. The world is in the wrong as 
a consequence of this logic; wrong in its material liv- 
ing, wrong in its spiritual beliefs; wrong in its intel- 
lectual assents. From Shakespeare to the musical 
glasses we have been, all of us, on the wrong track about 
the drama; our religious faiths are modified ancestor 
worship; our social life a sham; our glories — civic 
and military, poetic and practical, artistic and me- 
chanical, have been a huge mistake. But this wholesale 
accusation of error, this brief of Shaw vs. the Cosmos, 
has a suspiciously familiar ring. We have heard it 
before. Other men’s voices from Koheleth to Jonathan 
Swift’s, from Diogenes to Schopenhauer’s, have been 
hifted up against life as lived on our unimportant 
planet. True, cries our beloved Bernard, I do not 
claim originality. The other fellows said it before I 
did; they, too, had normal vision — and you can’t as- 
sure fools that they are fools too often! 

Have we our clue to Shaw? Yes: for he is that rare 
bird, a perfectly honest man. He means what he says 
and he is never more in earnest than when he is most 
whimsical. He laughs at love and London shrieks at 
his exquisite humor. But he is not making fun. He 
finds in our art and literature that the sexual passion 
plays far too important a réle. We are “ oversexed,”’ 
he cries, especially in the theatre. The slimy sentimen- 
talities of the popular play are too much for his nerves. 


XIV INTRODUCTION 


He is a Puritan in the last analysis and the degradation 
of dramatic art attendant upon sensuality moves him to 
strong utterances. “I have, I think, always been a 
Puritan in my attitude towards Art. I am as fond of 
fine music and handsome buildings as Milton was, or 
Cromwell, or Bunyan; but if I found that they were 
becoming the instruments of systematic idolatry of 
sensuousness, I would hold it good statesmanship to 
blow every cathedral in the world to pieces with dyna- 
mite, organ and all, without the least heed to the 
screams of the art critics and cultured voluptuaries.” 
He would light the fuse himself, just as he would go 
to the stake for a principle. He is at once the slayer 
and the slain; Calvin and Servetus. 

Brave are his very Tolstoian words. Nor does he 
claim priority in those attacks upon Shakespeare which 
he so happily terms Bardolatry. You may notice after 
reading his critical animadversions upon this sacred 
topic that he is not so often attacking Shakespeare as 
the ultra-Shakespeareans; that he is by no means so 
sharp in his criticisms of the bard as were Ben Jonson, 
Dr. Johnson, Voltaire, and Taine, — (did not Mr. 
George Moore invoke destruction when he dared to har- 
ness the names of Balzac and Shakespeare?) that his as- 
saults are really a plea for a more sane critical attitude 
toward Shakespeare; and, finally, that the entire pub- 
lic discussion — which assumed alarming aspects dur- 
ing the spring of 1905 in London — has illuminated tne 
fact that Bernard Shaw is by no means to be despised 
as a student of the divine William. Besides, a critic 
may look at a king, and this critic has let in much hight 
on his own peculiar psychology by these very criticisms. 
And it may be added that Shakespeare’s reputation has 
not suffered violence. 


INTRODUCTION XV 


More inexplicable is Shaw’s dislike of the Elizabe- 
thans. His lips curl with scorn when their names are 
mentioned. He forgives Shakespeare many extrava- 
gances; Marlowe, Ford, Massinger, Beaumont and 
Fletcher, Middleton, Dekker, none. Their rhetoric is 
insane and hideous; they are a crew of insufferable 
bunglers and dullards; the Renaissance was an orgie; 
Marlowe might, if he had lived to-day, have been a 
tolerable imitation of Kipling; all these plays are full 
of murder, lust, obscenity, cruelty; no ray of noble 
feeling, no touch of faith, beauty, nor even common 
kindliness 1s to be discovered in them, says critic 
Shaw. Shades of Charles Lamb! What will Swinburne 
say! 

Touching again on Shakespeare it will not be amiss 
to calmly face some of the Shavian blasphemies. An 
ounce of sincerity is worth a ton of hypocrisy. The 
optique of the theatre always magnifies, often falsifies. 
Great reputations should have their centennial critical 
bath — they would look all the brighter after it. And 
there are whole continents steeped in artistic — rather, 
in inartistic — hypocrisy. Witness the Parsifal craze; 
witness the eye-ball ecstasy when the name of Bach is 
mentioned — whereas most people loathe a Bach fugue 
as they loathe a Beethoven string quartette. But criti- 
cism makes cowards of us all. Ready-made admiration 
is ever dangerous; luckily Shaw, a Nietzschean before 
he ever heard of Nietzsche, was not taken in by the ver- 
dicts of yesterday. He carried his transvaluing scales 
in his pocket, and his alpenstock could be, if necessary, 
transformed into a critical measuring yardstick. He 
loved Wagner’s music and knew it so well that he was 
the first English critic who called attention to the 
fact that the composer, instead of being rhapsodic 


xv1 INTRODUCTION 


and formless, was, perhaps, a victim to the wide- 
spread Teutonic passion for Chinese formalism and 
systematism. 

He finds Shakespeare’s work full of moral plati- 
tudes, jingo claptrap, tavern pleasantries, bombast and 
drivel; while the bard’s incapacity for following up ‘the 
scraps of philosophy he stole so aptly, is noteworthy; 
his poetic speech, feeling for nature and the knack of 
character drawing, fun ahd heart wisdom, which he 
was ready, like a true son of the theatre, to prostitute 
to any subject, occasion and any theatrical employment _ 
—— these are some Shakespearean attributes. He thinks — 
Bunyan the truer man — which is quite aside from the 
argument — and he believes that we are outgrowing 
Shakespeare, who will become with Byron a “ household 
pet.” And most incontinently, he concludes by assert- 
ing that when he, Shaw, began to write dramatic criti- 
cism Shakespeare was a divinity; now he is become a 
fellow creature. He will never forgive him for the sen- 
suality of “ Antony and Cleopatra ” or for the cruel 
treatment accorded Julius Cesar’s magnificent person- 
ality. (But what would Shakespeare have said to Ber- 
nard Shaw’s Julius Cesar?) In short, Mr. Shaw finds 
that Shakespeare’s wisdom is Montaigne’s, his history 
Plutarch’s, his plots Bandello’s and several others. Yet 
he is a Shakespeare worshipper — though he cannot 
endure the accepted spelling of the great name; and 
declares that the ear should be the true clue to him: — 
““In a deaf nation these plays would have died long 
ago.” He berates Garrick, Colley Cibber, Irving, Au- 
gustin Daly and all the “ vaudeville adapters ” of the 
Shakespeare plays for their horrible taste, their vulgar 
excisions, and their substitution of scenic claptrap for 
the real Shakespeare. He wishes his Shakespeare naked 





INTRODUCTION xVll 


and undefiled by stupid commentators and barbarian 
stage-managers. 

Of latter-day playwrights Shaw has written, learn- 
edly and most piquantly. His Ibsen partisanship needs 
no vindication at this hour. The star of the great dead 
Norwegian has risen, no longer a baleful portent, but 
a beneficial orb in whose light we see ourselves — well, 
normally; as normally as Shaw sees us? For the 
modern English dramatists he has always exhibited a 
firm dislike until they achieved something that extorted 
his praise. He was among the first to attack Pinero’s 
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” as an artificial bit of 
stage technique. He speedily exposed the imherent 
structural weakness and lack of logic in “ The Notori- 
ous Mrs. Ebbsmith ”; but he found sufficient words of 
admiration for “‘ The Benefit of the Doubt,” by all odds 
the best, because truest, of the Pinero dramas. 

Henry Arthur Jones is rated highly by Mr. Shaw. 
This writer has ‘‘ creative imagination, curious obser- 
vation, inventive humor, sympathy and sincerity.”” He 
admired ‘‘ Michael and his Lost Angel,” as did a few 
discerning critics in New York—and he has never 
ceased wondering why this fine play was withdrawn in 
London before it had a fair chance. 

The reader will find scattered throughout these pages 
many treasures of wit and observation. And, oh! the 
wicked, the clever things that have dropped from the 
nib of the Shaw pen. ‘“ Who is Hall Caine?” Of 
Shaw’s own criticisms: “ Those who think the things I 
say severe, or even malicious, should just see the things 
I do not say.” ‘ Boiled Heroine.” ‘On the stage we 
get the geniuses and the hysteriques; but the inter- 
mediate talents are drawn back from a profession in 
which brains and self-respect have no chance against 


Xvill INTRODUCTION 


emotional facility and neurotic sexuality.” ‘‘ The stock 
actor is a stage calamity.” ‘ Falstaff is human but dis- 
gusting.” (St. Bernard is not a lover of flesh, nor a 
consumer of sack.) “‘ Mary Anderson was no actress — 
she lacked the actress temperament.” ‘“G. B.S. is a 
philosopher — his material, humanity.” ‘ Rostand is 
pasteboard.” ‘ Sardoodledom ” — which is capital. 
“A Puritan is a fanatical idealist to whom all stimula- 
tions of the sense of beauty are abhorred; a philis- 
tine is a prosaic person who has no ideals.” “‘I have a 
technical objection to making sexual infatuation a 
tragic theme. Experience proves that it 1s only effec- 
tive in the comic spirit.” 

Mr. Shaw, let us solemnly call your attention to 
“ Hedda Gabler’’; not to mention ‘“ Romeo and 
Juliet ”! Duse vs. Bernhardt is an excellent study of 
the old and the new artists — old and new in an artistic 
sense. Of dramatic criticism again: “ The actor will 
get money and applause from the contemporary mob; 
but posterity will only see him through the spectacles 
of the elect; 1f he displeases them (1. e., the dramatic 
critics) his credit will be interred with his bones.” 
Which is a curious paraphrase of Hamlet’s remarks 
about the players. ‘‘ Marie Corelli’s works are cheap vic- 
tories of a profuse imagination over an apparently com- 
monplace and carelessly cultivated mind.” ‘* Thack- 
eray is an author I cannot abide.” “ For my part I 
do not indorse all Ibsen’s views; I even prefer my own 
plays to his in some respects.” ‘‘ Pinero is no inter- 
preter of character, but simply an adroit describer of 
people as the ordinary man sees and judges them.” 
“A character actor is one who cannot act and there- 
fore makes an elaborate study of disguises and stage 
tricks by which acting can be grotesquely simulated. 


INTRODUCTION xx 


Pinero is simply character acting in the domain of 
authorship.”” Many pinchbeck histrionic reputations 
in England and America would be shattered by this 
dictum if the public but realized it. ‘ Oscar Wilde is 
an arch-artist; he is colossally lazy.” And hitting off 
the critical condescension with which Wilde’s pieces 
were once received by many critics in England, Shaw 
coolly remarks: “I am the only person in London who 
cannot sit down and write an Oscar Wilde play at 
will.’ ‘‘Mr. Barrie makes a pretty character as a 
milliner makes a bonnet, by matching materials; he has 
no eye for human character, only a keen sense for hu- 
man qualities.” 


Iit 


But enough. Here is a plethora of riches. Remem- 
ber, too, that when Shaw wrote the criticisms in this 
volume he was virginal to fame. It is his best work, 
the very pith of the man. It contains his most buoyant 
prose, the quintessence of Shaw. His valedictory is in- 
comparable. He found that after taking laughing 
gas he had many sub-conscious selves. He describes 
them; perhaps he realizes now that they often come 
to the surface in his writings without being invoked 
by gas. After nominating that gentle mid-Victorian, 
Max Beerbohm, as his successor, he concludes: ‘‘ I’m 
off duty forever and I am going to sleep.” He has 
been, however, desperately awake since then, and with 
him kept us all awake. His physician was clairvoyant. 
The normality of Shaw has made his reputation in a 
world of abnormal beings! He should be grateful to 
his vision. Bernard Shaw is an I. 





THE AUTHOR’S APOLOGY 


N justice to many well-known public persons who are 
I handled rather recklessly in the following pages, 

I beg my readers not to mistake my journalistic 
utterances for final estimates of their worth and 
achievements as dramatic artists and authors. It is 
not so much that the utterances are unjust; for I have 
never claimed for myself the divine attribute of justice. 
But some of them are not even reasonably fair: I must 
therefore warn the reader that what he is about to study 
is not a series of judgments aiming at impartiality, but 
a siege laid to the theatre of the XIXth Century by 
an author who had to cut his own way into it at the 
point of the pen, and throw some of its defenders into 
the moat. 

Pray do not conclude from this that the things here- 
inafter written were not true, or not the deepest and 
best things I know how to say. Only, they must be con- 
strued in the light of the fact that all through I was 
accusing my opponents of failure because they were not 
doing what I wanted, whereas they were often succeed- 
ing very brilliantly in doing what they themselves 
wanted. I postulated as desirable a certain kind of 
play in which I was destined ten years later to make my 
mark as a playwright (as I very well foreknew in the 
depth of my own unconsciousness); and I brought 
everybody, authors, actors, managers, to the one 
test: were they coming my way or staying in the old 
grooves? 

xd 


XX THE AUTHOR’S APOLOGY 


Sometimes I made allowances for the difference in 
aim, especially in the case of personal friends. But as 
a rule I set up my own standard of what the drama 
should be and how it should be presented; and I used 
all my art to make every deviation in aiming at this 
standard, every recalcitrance in approaching it, every 
refusal to accept it seem ridiculous and old-fashioned. 
In this, however, J only did what all critics do who are 
worth their salt. The critics who attacked Ibsen and 
defended Shakespeare whilst I was defending Ibsen and 
attacking Shakespeare; or who were acclaiming the 
reign of Irving at the Lyceum Theatre as the Antonino 
age of the Shakespearean drama whilst I was battering 
at it in open preparation for its subsequent downfall, 
were no more impartial than I. And now that my own 
turn has come to be criticized, I also am attacked be- 
cause I produce what I want to produce and not what 
some of my critics want me to produce. 

Dismissing, then, the figment of impartiality as at- 
tainable only through an indifference which would have 
prevented me from writing about the theatre at all, or 
even visiting it, what merit have these essays to justify 
their republication? Well, they contain something like 
a body of doctrine, because when IJ criticized I really did 
know definitely what I wanted. Very few journalistic 
critics do. When they attack a new man as Ibsen was 
attacked, they are for the most part only resisting a 
change which upsets their habits, the proof being that 
when they get the sort of play they blame the innovator 
for not producing, they turn up their noses at it, yawn 
over it, even recommend the unfortunate author to learn 
from the newcomer how to open his eyes and use his 
brains. Weariness of the theatre is the prevailing note 
of London criticism. Only the ablest critics believe that 


THE AUTHOR’S APOLOGY XX111 


the theatre is really important: in my time none of 
them would claim for it, as I claimed for it, that it is 
as important as the Church was m the Middle Ages and 
much more important than the Church was in London 
in the years under review. A theatre to me is a place 
‘““where two or three are gathered together.” ‘The 
apostolic succession from Eschylus to myself is as seri- 
ous and as continuously inspired as that younger insti- 
tution, the apostolic succession of the Christian Church. 
Unfortunately this Christian Church, founded gaily 
with a pun, has been so largely corrupted by rank 
Satanism that it has become the Church where you must 
not laugh; and so it is givmg way to that older and 
greater Church to which I belong: the Church where 
the oftener you laugh the better, because by laughter 
only can you destroy evil without malice, and affirm 
good fellowship without mawkishness. When I wrote, 
I was well aware of what an unofficial census of Sunday 
worshippers presently proved: that churchgomg in 
London has been largely replaced by playgoing. This 
would be a very good thing if the theatre took itself 
seriously as a factory of thought, a prompter of con- 
science, an elucidator of social conduct, an armory 
against despair and dulness, and a temple of the 
Ascent of Man. I took it seriously in that way, and 
preached about it instead of merely chronicling its news 
and alternately petting and snubbing it as a licentious 
but privileged form of public entertainment. And this, 
I believe, is why my sermons gave so little offence, and 
created so much interest. The artists of the theatre, 
led by Sir Henry Irving, were winning their struggle to 
be considered ladies and gentlemen, qualified for official 
honors. Now for their gentility and knighthoods I 
cared very little: what lay at the root of my criticism 


XXIV THE AUTHOR’S APOLOGY 


was their deeper claim to be considered, not merely 
actors and actresses, but men and women, not hired 
buffoons and posturers, however indulged, but hiero- 
phants of a cult as eternal and sacred as any professed 
religion in the world. And so, consciously or uncon- 
sciously, I was forgiven when many of my colleagues, 
less severe because less in earnest on the subject, gave 
deadly offence. 

Nevertheless, though much tempted by publishers, I 
allowed these essays to sleep in the files of the Saturday 
Review for eight years, and should have left them there 
still 1f the decision had rested with me, knowing well 
that though many strokes may be struck at public per- 
formers quite justifiably and beneficially on an ephem- 
eral page with the object of heading off those momen- 
tary rushes in the wrong direction which occur in the 
drama and in acting no less than in politics and fashion, 
some of them should not be repeated in permanent liter- 
ary form until the period and the persons pass out of 
the struggle for existence into history. But my control 
over my writings goes no further than my copyright. 
Being powerless to prevent the publication of these 
articles in America, I have been forced (not, of course, 
very unwillingly) to make the best of the situation by 
inviting my own American publishers to anticipate the 
inevitable, so that the publication shall be at least in 
friendly hands. As the pressure of other affairs made 
it impossible for me to undertake the work of editing 
and selection it was placed, at my own suggestion, in 
the hands of Mr. James Huncker, who has donc it better 
than I should have done. To forbid an extension of 
the circulation to British territory would be useless: 
the smugglers would take care of that; so the volumes 
must run their course with my sincere prayer for par- 


THE AUTHOR’S APOLOGY XXV 


don to those survivors of the conflict who may have 
received a scratch or two from my pen. 

I have to thank the proprietors of the Saturday 
Review for their consent to the circulation of this re- 
print in the British Empire, and to express my regret 
that my articles must reappear without the brilliant 
setting at first provided for them by the pens of my 
colleagues on the staff of that journal. 


BERNARD SHAW. 
Ayot St. Lawrence, 1906, 


SLAVES OF THE RING 


Slaves of the Ring: a new and original play in three 
acts. By Sydney Grundy. Garrick Theatre, 29 De- 
cember, 1894. 


F all wonderful scenes that the modern theatre 
knows, commend me to that in the first act of 
Wagner’s “ Tristan,” where Tristan and Isolde 

drink the death draught. There is nothing else for 
them to do; since Tristan, loving Isolde and being be- 
loved by her, is nevertheless bringing her across the sea 
to be the bride of his friend, King Mark. Believing 
themselves delivered by death from all bonds and duties 
and other terrestrial fates, they enter into an elysium 
of love in perfect happiness and freedom, and remain 
there until their brief eternity is cut short by the shouts 
of the sailors and the letting go of the anchor, and they 
find themselves still on earth, with all secrets told and 
barriers cast down between them, and King Mark wait- 
ing to receive his bride. The poison had been exchanged 
by a friendly hand for a love potion. 

At what period Mr. Sydney Grundy came under the 
spell of this situation, and resolved that he, too, would 
have a “new and original ” turn at it, I do not know. 
It may be, since these dramatic imaginings are really 
the common heritage of the human imagination, and 
belong to no individual genius, however grandly he may 
have shaped them into a masterpiece of his art, that Mr. 


Grundy may have found the situation in the air, and not 
1 


2 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


at Bayreuth. Howbeit he conceived it somehow, and 
proceeded to make out of it the play entitled “‘ Slaves of 
the Ring,” which differs from Wagner’s “ Tristan ” in 
this very essential respect, that whereas “ Tristan ” is 
the greatest work of its kind of the century, “ Slaves 
of the Ring” is not sufficiently typical or classical to 
deserve being cited even as the worst. It is not a work 
of art at all: it is a mere contrivance for filling a 
theatre bill, and not, I am bound to say, a very apt 
contrivance even at that. 

Here was the problem as it presented itself to Mr. 
Grundy. Wanted, a married lady declaring her love 
for a man other than her husband under the impression 
that she and he are both dead, and consequently re- 
leased from all moral obligations (this, observe, is the 
indispensable condition which appears to lie at the back 
of the popular conception of Paradise in all countries ). 
The lady’s conviction that she has passed the gates of 
death preserves her innocence as an English heroine. 
But what about the gentleman? Wagner made the gen- 
tleman believe himself dead also, and so preserved his 
innocence. But the English stage gentleman is as frail 
as the English stage lady is pure: therefore Mr. 
Grundy’s Tristan, though perfectly alive and well 
aware of it, takes the deluded lady to his bosom. Here- 
upon Mr. Grundy owes it to his character as a master 
of drama that Tristan’s wife should overhear these pro- 
ceedings; and he owes it to his reputation as a master 
of stage technique that she should announce her pres- 
ence by turning up a lamp, which the other lady has 
previously had turned down for that express purpose 
(as every experienced playgoer in the house plainly 
foresees) on the somewhat emaciated pretext that she 
prefers to sit in the dark. But it is of course possible 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 38 


that this also is a reminiscence of Tristan and Isolde’s 
love of night and death. At all events, Miss Rorke 
turns up the lamp with the expertness due to long prac- 
tice; and then, the dramatic possibilities of the theme 
being exhausted, the parties get off the stage as best 
they can. 

Here you have the whole play. Once this scene was 
invented, nothing remained for the author to do except 
to prepare for it in a first act, and to use up its back: 
wash in a third. And concerning that first act, I can 
only say that my utter lack of any sort of relish for 
Mr. Grundy’s school of theatrical art must be my 
excuse if I fail, without some appearance of malice, 
adequately to convey my sense of the mathematic life- 
lessness and intricacy of his preliminaries. I am not 
alluding to the inevitable opening explanations on the 
subject of “ the old Earl” and “the late Countess,” 
which Mrs. Boucicault industriously offers to Miss Kate 
Phillips, who replies with much aplomb, “I see your 
point.” Even if I could follow such explanations, I 
could not remember them. Often as I have sat them 
out, I have never listened to them, and [ never will; 
though I am far from objecting to a device which gives 
me leisure to look at the scenery and dresses, and helps 
to attune the ear of the pit to the conversational pitch 
of the house. But I do expect the author to get through 
the task of introducing the persons of the drama to the 
audience in a lucid and easily memorable way, and not 
to leave me at the end of half-an-hour feeling like a boy 
on his first day at a new school, or a stranger at an 
At-Home in a new set. Mr. Grundy somehow managed 
to plunge me into the densest confusion as to who was 
who, a confusion which almost touched aberration when 
I saw a double leading lady walk on to the stage, both 


4 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


of her in full wedding dress. Like the dying Mous- 
quetaire in the Ingoldsby Legends, when his friends 
tried to cure him of seeing a ghost by dressing up a 
nurse exactly like it, I exclaimed: 


“Mon Dieu! V’la deux! 
By the Pope, there are two!” 


The spectacular effect alone of so much white silk was 
sufficiently unhinging. But when the two brides pro- 
ceeded solemnly to marry one another with a wedding 
ring, I really did feel for a moment a horrible mis- 
giving that I had at last broken through that “ thin 
partition ” which divides great wits from madness. It 
was only afterwards, when we came to the “ Tristan ” 
scene, for which all this was mere preparation, that I 
realized how Mr. Grundy’s imagination, excited solely 
by that one situation, and unhappily not fertilized by 
it sufficiently to bring its figures to life as created char- 
acters, was inert during this first act; so that in elabo- 
rating a tissue of artificialities to lead us to accept a 
situation which we would willingly have taken for 
granted without any explanations at all, he was unable 
to visualize the stage, even with two brides on it in full 
fig. Well was it for Mr. Grundy that that act was 
under the wing of Mr. Hare at the Garrick Theatre. 
Even as it was, there were moments when even the 
firmest faith that something must be coming presently 
showed signs of breaking down. 

The third act was better. There were no explana- 
tions, because, the murder being out, there was nothing 
more to explain. Unfortunately, though the plot was 
over, it was too late to begin the play. Further, the 
scene was in a conservatory, lit with so many lamps 
that Miss Rorke courd not have made any particular 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 5 


difference by turning down one of them; so she jumped 
through a palm-tree instead, and cried, “ Aha! I ’ve 
caught you at last,” just as the other lady, though now 
convalescent and in her right mind, was relapsing into 
her dream with Tristan. In spite of this and a few 
other claptraps, there was a certain force at work in 
this act, a force which finally revealed itself as a burn- 
ing conviction in Mr. Grundy that our law and custom 
of making marriage indissoluble and irrevocable, except 
by the disgrace of either party, is a cruel social evil. 
Under the stimulus of this, the only definite “ view ” 
anywhere discoverable in his works, he does manage to 
get some driving weight of indignant discontent into the 
end of the play, though even in the very heat of it he 
remains so captivated by worn-out French stage con- 
ventions that he makes one of his characters strike 
the supposed lover of his wife across the face with a 
white glove. Whereat it is really impossible to do any- 
thing but laugh and fish out one’s hat to go. Being 
safely at home, well disposed to Mr. Grundy, and de- 
sirous above all things to slip gently over the staring 
fact that the play might be a better one, let me note 
gratefully that there is no villain, no hero, a quadrille 
of lovers instead of a pair, and that Mr. Grundy’s 
Imagination, stretched and tortured as it is on the Pro- 
crustean framework of ‘the well-made play,” yet 
bursts fitfully into activity — though not, alas! into 
rebellion — with angry vigor. 

As to the acting, it is, on the whole, much worse 
than the play. Miss Kate Rorke, comely, ladylike and 
self-possessed, turns her emotion on and off by her well- 
established method with a business-like promptitude 
that makes the operation as certain as the turning up 
and down of the lamp. I feel sure that Miss Rorke 


6 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


would regard what I call acting as mere hysteria; and 
indeed I should be loth to recommend it to her, as she is 
no doubt quite as popular, and perhaps a good deal 
happier without it. Miss Calhoun, equally experienced, 
also obliged with whatever was wanted at the right 
moment. Her outcries in the first act, and again in 
the last, were discordant and unconvincing; and she 
should have made the Tristan scene at least six times 
as effective. Mr. Brandon Thomas, as a broken-hearted 
personage charged with the duty of accompanying the 
play by an explanatory lecture in the manner of Dumas 
fils, was in a deplorable situation throughout. It hap- 
pens that the plot devised by Mr. Grundy to bring off 
his one scene has all the potentialities of a capital 
comedy plot. Mr. Brandon Thomas divined this, and 
knew in his soul (as I read him) that if only he might 
be allowed the smallest twinkle of humor, he could make 
the play go lke wild-fire. Under these circumstances 
his enforced gravity had a baffled quality which was the 
more ludicrous because it looked as if he were killing 
the play, whereas the play was really killing him. Mr. 
Gilbert Hare had a more important part than he would 
have been cast for in any other theatre; but as he 
played it with great care and thoroughness to the very 
best of his ability, it would be churlish to grudge him 
his advantage. Mr. Bourchier had nothing to act, 
though, fundamentally, this observation is perhaps 
hardly more true of him than of the rest. Some comic 
relicf gave an opportunity to Mr. Hare and Miss Kate 
Philips. Mr. Hare, to be quite frank, had a very 
cheap job; but he got the last inch of effect out of it. 
He, also, was provided with a patent broken heart, 
though he happily kept it to himself until a moment 
before his final exit. Miss Phillips was hampered in the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 7 


first two acts by that sort of comic part which is almost 
as much a nuisance as a relief; but she played a little 
scene with Mr. Hare in the last act very cleverly, and 
was, it seemed to me, the only lady in the cast whose 
artistic sensitiveness had survived the case-hardening 
of professional routine. The stage-mounting and color- 
ing were solidly and expensively Philistine, the dresses 
in the last act, and the style of domestic decoration in 
the first, epitomizing the whole history of plutocracy in 
England during the expiring century. 


TWO NEW PLAYS 


Guy Domville: a play in three acts. By Henry James. 
St. James’s Theatre, 5 January, 1895. 

An Ideal Husband: a new and original play of modern 
life. By Oscar Wilde. Haymarket Theatre, 3 Janu- 
ary, 1895. 


p NHE truth about Mr. James’s play is no worse 
than that it is out of fashion. Any dramatically 
disposed young gentleman who, cultivating senti- 

ment on a little alcohol, and gaining an insight to the 

mysteries of the eternal feminine by a couple of squalid 
intrigues, meanwhile keeps well aloof from art and phi- 
losophy, and thus preserves his innocence of the higher 

life of the senses and of the intellect, can patch up a 

play to-morrow which will pass as real drama with the 

gentlemen who deny that distinction to the work of Mr. 

Henry James. No doubt, if the literary world were as 

completely dominated by the admirers of Mr. Rider 

Haggard as the dramatic world is by their first cousins, 


8 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


we should be told that Mr. James cannot write a novel. 
That is not criticism; it is a mere begging of the ques- 
tion. ‘There is no reason why life as we find it in Mr. 
James’s novels — life, that is, in which passion is sub- 
ordinate to intellect and to fastidious artistic taste — 
should not be represented on the stage. If it is real to 
Mr. James, it must be real to others; and why should 
not these others have their drama instead of being 
banished from the theatre (to the theatre’s great loss) 
by the monotony and vulgarity of drama in which pas- 
sion is everything, intellect nothing, and art only 
brought in by the incidental outrages upon it? As it 
happens, I am not myself in Mr. James’s camp: in all 
the life that has energy enough to be interesting to me, 
subjective volition, passion, will, make intellect the 
merest tool. But there is in the centre of that cyclone 
a certain calm spot where cultivated ladies and gentle- 
men live on independent incomes or by pleasant artistic 
occupations. It is there that Mr. James’s art touches 
life, selecting whatever is graceful, exquisite, or digni- 
fied in its serenity. It is not life as imagined by the 
pit or gallery, or even by the stalls: it is, let us say, the 
ideal of the baleony; but that is no reason why the 
pit and gallery should excommunicate it on the ground 
that it has no blood and entrails in it, and have its 
sentence formulated for it by the fierecly ambitious and 
wilful professional man in the stalls. The whole case 
against its adequacy really rests on its violation of the 
cardinal stage convention that love is the most irre- 
sistible of all the passions. Since most people go to 
the theatre to escape from reality, this convention is 
naturally dear to a world in which love, all powerful in 
the seerct, unreal, day-dreaming life of the imagination, 
is in the real active life the abject slave of every trifling 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 9 


habit, prejudice, and cowardice, easily stifled by shy- 
ness, class feeling, and pecuniary prudence, or diverted 
from what is theatrically assumed to be its hurricane 
course by such obstacles as a thick ankle, a cockney 
accent, or an unfashionable hat. In the face of this, 
is it good sense to accuse Mr. Henry James of a want 
of grip of the realities of life because he gives us a hero 
who sacrifices his love to a strong and noble vocation 
for the Church? And yet when some unmannerly play- 
goer, untouched by either love or religion, chooses to 
send a derisive howl from the gallery at such a situa- 
tion, we are to sorrowfully admit, if you please, that 
Mr. James is no dramatist, on the general ground that 
“the drama’s laws the drama’s patrons give.” Pray 
which of its patrons? — the cultivated majority who, 
like myself and all the ablest of my colleagues, ap- 
plauded Mr. James on Saturday, or the handful of 
rowdies who brawled at him? It is the business of the 
dramatic critic to educate these dunces, not to echo 
them. 

Admitting, then, that Mr. James’s dramatic author- 
ship is valid, and that his plays are du thédtre when the 
right people are in the theatre, what are the qualities 
and faults of “Guy Domville”? First among the 
qualities, a rare charm of speech. Line after line comes 
with such a delicate turn and fall that I unhesitatingly 
challenge any of our popular dramatists to write a 
scene in verse with half the beauty of Mr. James’s 
prose. I am not now speaking of the verbal fitness, 
which is a matter of careful workmanship merely. I 
am speaking of the delicate inflexions of feeling con- 
veyed by the cadences of the line, inflexions and ca- 
dences which, after so long a course of the ordinary 
theatrical splashes and daubs of passion and emphasis, 


10 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


are as grateful to my ear as the music of Mozart’s 
** Entfiihrung aus dem Serail ” would be after a year of 
** Ernani” and “ Il Trovatore.” Second, “ Guy Dom- 
ville” is a story, and not a mere situation hung out 
on a gallows of plot. And it is a story of fine sentiment 
and delicate manners, with an entirely worthy and 
touching ending. Third, it relies on the performers, not 
for the brute force of their personalities and populari- 
ties, but for their finest accomplishments in grace of 
manner, delicacy of diction, and dignity of style. It is 
pleasant to be able to add that this reliance, rash as it 
undeniably is in these days, was not disappointed. Mr. 
Alexander, having been treated little better than a 
tailor’s dummy by Mr. Wilde, Mr. Pinero, and Mr. 
Henry Arthur Jones successively, found himself treated 
as an artist by Mr. James, and repaid the compliment, 
not only, as his manager, by charming eighteenth- 
century stage setting of the piece, but, as actor, by 
his fine execution of the principal part, which he 
touched with great skill and judgment. Miss Marion 
Terry, as Mrs. Peveril, was altogether charming; every 
movement, every tone, harmonized perfectly with the 
dainty grace and feeling of her lines. In fact, had 
the second act been equal to the first and third, and the 
acting as fine throughout as in the seenes between Mr. 
Alexander and Miss Terry (in which, by the way, they 
were well supported by Mr. Waring), the result would 
have been less doubtful. It will be a deplorable misfor- 
tune if “ Guy Domville ” does not hold the stage long 
enough to justify Mr. Alexander’s enterprise in pro- 
ducing it. 

Unfortunately, the second act dissolved the charm 
rather badly; and what was more, the actors felt it. 
The Falstaffian make-up of Mrs. Saker, and the sense- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS  I1 


less drunken scene, which Mr. Alexander played with 
the sobriety of desperation, made fuss instead of 
drama; and the dialogue, except for a brief and very 
pretty episode in which Miss Millard and Mr. Esmond 
took part, fell off into mere rococo. Little of this act 
can be remembered with pleasure except Miss Millard’s 
“Forgive me a little,”” and a few cognate scraps of 
dialogue. It had better have been left out, and the 
wanderings of the prodigal taken for granted. And, 
to weight it still further, it contained a great deal of the 
gentleman who played Lord Devenish, and played him 
just as he might have played an elderly marquis in a 
comic opera, grimacing over a snuff-box, and withering 
all sense and music out of Mr. James’s lines with a dic- 
tion which I forbear to describe. He was very largely 
responsible for the irritation which subsequently vented 
itself on the author; and I am far from sure that I 
ought not to borrow a weapon from the Speaker of the 
House of Commons, and go to the extreme length of 
naming him. 

“Guy Domville” is preceded by a farce (called in 
the bill a comedy) by Julian Field, entitled “ Too 
Happy by Half.” It is deftly turned out from old 
and seasoned materials, and is capital fun for the audi- 
ence and for Mr. Esmond and Miss Millard. Miss Mil- 
lard is not yet quite experienced enough to do very easy 
work quite well: she is the least bit crude occasionally. 

Mr. Oscar Wilde’s new play at the Haymarket is a 
dangerous subject, because he has the property of mak- 
ing his critics dull. They laugh angrily at his epi- 
grams, like a child who is coaxed into being amused 
in the very act of setting up a yell of rage and agony. 
They protest that the trick is obvious, and that such 
epigrams can be turned out by the score by any one 


99 


12 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


lightminded enough to condescend to such frivolity. 
As far as I can ascertain, I am the only person in 
London who cannot sit down and write an Oscar Wilde 
play at will. The fact that his plays, though appar- 
ently lucrative, remain unique under these circum- 
stances, says much for the self-denial of our scribes. In 
a certain sense Mr. Wilde is to me our only thorough 
playwright. He plays with everything: with wit, with 
philosophy, with drama, with actors and audience, with 
the whole theatre. Such a feat scandalizes the English- 
man, who can no more play with wit and philosophy 
than he can with a football or a cricket bat. He works 
at both, and has the consolation, if he cannot make 
people laugh, of being the best cricketer and footballer 
in the world. Now it is the mark of the artist that he 
will not work. Just as people with social ambitions 
will practise the meanest economies in order to live 
expensively, so the artist will starve his way through 
incredible toil and discouragement sooner than go and 
earn a week’s honest wages. Mr. Wilde, an arch-artist, 
is so colossally lazy that he trifles even with the work 
by which an artist escapes work. He distils the very 
quintessence, and gets as product plays which are so 
unapproachably playful that they are the delight of 
every playgoer with twopenn’orth of brains. The Eng- 
lish critic, alvays protesting that the drama should not 
be didactic, and yet always complaining if the dramatist 
does not find sermons in stones and good in everything, 
will be conscious of a subtle and pervading levity in 
“© An Ideal Husband.” All the literary dignity of the 
play, all the imperturbable good sense and good man- 
ners with which Mr. Wilde makes his wit pleasant to his 
comparatively stupid audience, cannot quite overcome 
the fact that Ireland is of all countries the most foreign 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 13 
to England, and that to the Irishman (and Mr. Wilde 


is almost as acutely Irish an Irishman as the Iron Duke 
of Wellington) there is nothing in the world quite so 
exquisitely comic as an Englishman’s seriousness. It 
becomes tragic, perhaps, when the Englishman acts on 
it; but that occurs too seldom to be taken into account, 
a fact which intensifies the humor of the situation, the 
total result being the Englishman utterly unconscious 
of his real self, Mr. Wilde keenly observant of it and 
playing on the self-unconsciousness with irresistible 
humor, and finally, of course, the Englishman annoyed 
with himself for being amused at his own expense, and 
for being unable to convict Mr. Wilde of what seems an 
obvious misunderstanding of human nature. He is 
shocked, too, at the danger to the foundations of so- 
ciety when seriousness is publicly laughed at. And to 
complete the oddity of the situation, Mr. Wilde, touch- 
ing what he himself reverences, 1s absolutely the most 
sentimental dramatist of the day. 

It is useless to describe a play which has no thesis: 
which is, in the purest integrity, a play and nothing 
less. The six worst epigrams are mere alms handed 
with a kind smile to the average suburban playgoer; 
the three best remain secrets between Mr. Wilde and a 
few choice spirits. The modern note is struck in Sir 
Robert Chiltern’s assertion of the individuality and 
courage of his wrongdoing as against the mechanical 
idealism of his stupidly good wife, and im his bitter 
criticism of a love that is only the reward of merit. It 
is from the philosophy on which this scene is based that 
the most pregnant epigrams in the play have been con- 
densed. Indeed, this is the only philosophy that ever has 
produced epigrams. In contriving the stage expedients 
by which the action of the piece is kept going, Mr. Wilde 


14 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


has been once or twice a little too careless of stage illu- 
sion: for example, why on earth should Mrs. Cheveley, 
hiding in Lord Goring’s room, knock down a chair? 
That is my sole criticism. 

The performance is very amusing. The audience 
laughs conscientiously: each person comes to the the- 
atre prepared, like a special artist, with the background 
of a laugh ready sketched in on his or her features. 
Some of the performers labor intensely at being epi- 
grammatic. J am sure Miss Vane Featherstone and 
Miss Forsyth could play Lady Macbeth and Medea 
with less effort than Lady Basildon and Mrs. March- 
mont, who have nothing to do but sit on a sofa and be 
politely silly for ten minutes. There is no doubt that 
these glimpses of expensive receptions in Park Lane, 
with the servants announcing titles ad libitum, are 
enormously attractive to social outsiders (say ninety- 
nine hundredths of us); but the stage reproduction is 
not convincing: everybody has an outrageous air of 
being at a party; of not being used to it; and, worst 
of all, of enjoying themselves immensely. Mr. Charles 
Hawtrey has the best of the fun among the principals. 
As every one’s guide, philosopher, and friend, he has 
moments in which he is, I think, intended to be deep, 
strong, and tender. ‘These moments, to say the least, 
do not quite come off; but his lighter serious episodes 
are excellent, and his drollery conquers without effort. 
When Miss Neilson sits still and Iets her gifts of beauty 
and grace be eloquent for her, she is highly satisfying; 
but I cannot say the same for the passages in which she 
has to take the stage herself and try to act. She be- 
comes merely artificial and superficially imitative. Miss 
Fanny Brough makes Lady Markby, an eminently pos- 
sible person, quite impossible; and Miss Maude Millet, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 9 15 


playing very well indeed as Mabel Chiltern, nevertheless 
occasionally spoils a word by certain vowel sounds which 
are only permissible to actresses of the second rank. 
As an adventuress who, like the real and unlike the 
stage adventuress, is not in love with any one, and 1s 
simply selfish, dishonest, and third rate, Miss Florence 
West is kinetoscopically realistic. The portrait is true 
to nature; but it has no artistic character: Miss West 
has not the art of being agreeably disagreeable. Mr. 
Brookfield, a great artist in small things, makes the 
valet in the third act one of the heroes of the perform- 
ance. And Mr. Waller is handsome and dignified as the 
ideal husband — a part easily within his means. His 
management could not have been more auspiciously 
inaugurated. 


KING ARTHUR 


King Arthur: a drama in a prologue and four acts. 
By J. Comyns Carr. Lyceum Theatre, 12 January, 
1895. 


pulse which has led him to exclaim, on this 

occasion, “ Let us get rid of that insufferably 
ignorant specialist, the dramatist, and try whether 
something fresh cannot be done by a man equipped with 
all the culture of the age.” It was an inevitable step 
in the movement which is bringing the stage more and 
more into contact with life. When I was young, the 
banquets on the stage were made by the property man: 
his goblets and pasties, and epergnes laden with grapes, 


Mi: IRVING is to be congratulated on the im- 


16 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


regaled guests who walked off and on through illusory 
wainscoting simulated by the precarious perspective of 
the wings. The scene-painter built the rooms; the cos- 
tumier made the dresses; the armor was made appar- 
ently by dipping the legs of the knights in a solution 
of salt of spangles and precipitating the metal on their 
calves by some electro-process; the leader of the band 
made the music; and the author wrote the verse and 
invented the law, the morals, the religion, the art, the 
jurisprudence, and whatever else might be needed in 
the abstract department of the play. Since then we 
have seen great changes. Real walls, ceilings, and doors 
are made by real carpenters; real tailors and dress- 
makers clothe the performers; real armorers harness 
them; and real musicians write the musie and have it 
performed with full orchestral honors at the Crystal 
Palace and the Philharmonic. All that remains is to 
get a real poet to write the verse, a real philosopher to 
do the morals, a real divine to put in the religion, a real 
lawyer to adjust the law, and a real painter to design 
the pictorial effects. This is too much to achieve at 
one blow; but Mr. Irving made a brave step towards 
it when he resolved to get rid of the author and put in 
his place his dear old friend Comyns Carr as an ency- 
elopedic gentleman well up to date in most of these 
matters. And Mr. Comyns Carr, of course, was at once 
able to tell him that there was an immense mass of 
artistic and poetic tradition, accumulated by genera- 
tions of poets and painters, lying at hand all ready for 
exploitation by any experienced dealer with ingenuity 
and literary faculty enough to focus it in a stage enter- 
tainment. Such a man would have to know, for instance, 
that educated people have ceased to believe that archi- 
tecture means “ruins by moonlight” (style, ecclesi- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 17 


astical Gothic) ; that the once fashionable admiration of 
the Renaissance and “ the old masters ” of the sixteenth 
and seventeenth centuries has been swept away by the 
growth of a genuine sense of the native dignity and charm 
of thirteenth-century work, and a passionate affec- 
tion for the exquisite beauty of fifteenth-century work, 
so that nowadays ten acres of Carracci, Giulio, Ro- 
mano, Guido, Domenichino, and Pictro di Cortona will 
not buy an inch of Botticelli, or Lippi, or John Bellini 
— no, not even with a few yards of Raphael thrown in; 
and that the whole rhetorical school in English litera- 
ture, from Shakespeare to Byron, appears to us in our 
present mood only another side of the terrible degringo- 
lade from Michael Angelo to Canova and Thorwaldsen, 
all of whose works would not now tempt us to part with 
a single fragment by Donatello, or even a pretty found- 
ling baby by Della Robbia. And yet this, which is the 
real art culture of England to-day, is only dimly known 
to our dramatic authors as a momentary bygone craze 
out of which a couple of successful pieces, “‘ Patience ” 
and “The Colonel,” made some money in their day. 
Mr. Comyns Carr knows better. He knows that Burne- 
Jones has made himself the greatest among English 
decorative painters by picking up the tradition of his 
art where Lippi left it, and utterly ignoring “ their 
Raphaels, Correggios, and stuff.” He knows that Wil- 
liam Morris has made himself the greatest living mas- 
ter of the English language, both in prose and verse, 
by picking up the tradition of the literary art where 
Chaucer left it, and that Morris and Burne-Jones, close 
friends and co-operators in many a masterpiece, form 
the highest aristocracy of English art to-day. And he 
knows exactly how far their culture has spread and 
penetrated, and how much simply noble beauty of 


18 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Romanesque architecture, what touching loveliness and 
delicate splendor of fifteenth-century Italian dresses 
and armor, what blue from the hills round Florence and 
what sunset gloom deepening into splendid black shadow 
from the horizons of Giorgione will be recognized with 
delight on the stage if they be well counterfeited there; 
also what stories we long to have as the subject of these 
deeply desired pictures. Foremost among such stories 
stands that of King Arthur, Lancelot, and Guinevere; 
and what Mr. Comyns Carr has done is to contrive a 
play in which we have our heart’s wish, and see these 
figures come to life, and move through halls and colon- 
nades that might have been raised by the master- 
builders of San Zeno or San Ambrogio, out into the 
eternal beauty of the woodland spring, acting their 
legend just as we know it, in just such vestures and 
against just such backgrounds of blue hill and fiery 
sunset. No mere dramatic author could have wrought 
this miracle. Mr. Comyns Carr has done it with ease, 
by simply knowing whom to send for. His long business 
experience as a man of art and letters, and the contact 
with artists and poets which it has involved, have 
equipped him completely for the work. In Mr. Irving’s 
theatre, with Burne-Jones to design for him, Harker 
and Hawes Craven to paint for him, and Malory and 
Tennyson and many another on his bookshelves, he has 
put out his hand cleverly on a ready-made success, and 
tasted the joy of victory without the terror of battle. 
But how am I to praise this deed when my own art, 
the art of literature, is left shabby and ashamed amid 
the triumph of the arts of the painter and the actor? 
I sometimes wonder where Mr. Irving will go to when 
he dies — whether he will dare to claim, as a master 
artist, to walk where he may any day meet Shakespeare 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 19 


whom he has mutilated, Goethe whom he has travestied, 
and the nameless creator of the hero-king out of whose 
mouth he has uttered jobbing verses. For in poetry 
Mr. Comyns Carr is frankly a jobber and nothing else. 
There is one scene in the play in which Mr. Irving rises 
to the height of his art, and impersonates, with the 
noblest feeling, and the most sensitive refinement of exe- 
cution, the King Arthur of all our imaginations in the 
moment when he learns that his wife loves his friend 
instead of himself. And all the time, whilst the voice, 
the gesture, the emotion expressed are those of the hero- 
king, the talk is the talk of an angry and jealous coster- 
monger, exalted by the abject submission of the other 
parties to a transport of magnanimity im refraiming 
from reviling his wife and punching her lover’s head. 
I do not suppose that Mr. Irving said to Mr. Comyns 
Carr in so many words, “ Write what trash you hke: 
Ill play the real King Arthur over the head of your 
stuff’; but that was what it came to. And the end 
of it was that Mr. Comyns Carr was too much for Mr. 
Irving. When King Arthur, having broken down in an 
attempt to hit Lancelot with his sword, Guinevere 
grovelling on the floor with her head within an inch of 
his toes, and stood plainly conveying to the numerous 
bystanders that this was the proper position for a 
female who had forgotten herself so far as to prefer 
another man to him, one’s gorge rose at the Tapper- 
titian vulgarity and infamy of the thing; and it was 
a relief when the scene ended with a fine old Richard 
the Third effect of Arthur leading his mail-clad knights 
off to battle. That vision of a fine figure of a woman, 
torn with sobs and remorse, stretched at the feet of a 
nobly superior and deeply wronged lord of creation, is 
no doubt still as popular with the men whose sentimental 


20 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


vanity it flatters as it was in the days of the “ Idylls of 
the King.” But since then we have been learning that 
a woman is something more than a piece of sweetstuff 
to fatten a man’s emotions; and our amateur King 
Arthurs are beginning to realize, with shocked surprise, 
that the more generous the race grows, the stronger 
becomes its disposition to bring them to their senses 
with a stinging dose of wholesome ridicule. Mr. 
Comyns Carr miscalculated the spirit of the age on this 
point; and the result was that he dragged Mr. Irving 
down from the height of the loftiest passage in his 
acting to the abyss of the lowest depth of the dialogue. 

Whilst not sparmg my protest against this unpar- 
donable scene, I can hardly blame Mr. Comyns Carr for 
the touch of human frailty which made him reserve to 
himself the honor of providing the “book of the 
words ” for Burne-Jones’s picture-opera. No doubt, 
since Mr. Carr is no more a poet than I am, the con- 
sistent course would have been to call in Mr. William 
Morris to provide the verse. Perhaps, if Mr. Irving, in 
his black harness, with his visor down and Excalibur 
ready to hand and well in view, were to present himself 
at the Kelmscott Press fortified with a propitiatory ap- 
peal from the great painter, the poet might, without 
absolutely swearing, listen to a proposal that he should 
condescend to touch up those little rhymed acrostics in 
which Merlin utters his prophceies, leaving the blank 
verse padding to Mr. Comyns Carr. For the blank 
verse is at all events accurately metrical, a fact which 
distinguishes the author sharply from most modern 
dramatists. The ideas are second-hand, and are dove- 
tailed into a coherent structure instead of developing 
into one another by any life of their own; but they are 
sometimes very well chosen; and Mr. Carr is often 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 21 


guided to his choice of them by the strength and sin- 
cerity of their effect on his own feelings. At such 
moments, if he does not create, he reflects so well, and 
sometimes reflects such fine rays too, that one gladly 
admits that there are men whose originality might have 
been worse than his receptivity. There are excellent 
moments in the love scenes: indeed, Lancelot’s confes- 
sion of his love to Guinevere all but earns for the author 
the poet’s privilege of having his chain tested by its 
strongest link. 

The only great bit of acting in the piece is that 
passage of Mr. Irving’s to which I have already alluded 
—a masterly fulfilment of the promise of one or two 
quiet but eloquent touches in his scene with Guinevere 
in the second act. Popularly speaking, Mr. Forbes 
Robertson as Lancelot is the hero of the piece. He has 
a beautiful costume, mostly of plate-armor of Burne- 
Jonesian design; and he wears it beautifully, like a 
fifteenth-century St. George, the spiritual, interesting 
face completing a rarely attractive living picture. He 
was more than applauded on his entrance: he was 
positively adored. His voice is an organ with only one 
stop on it: to the musician it suggests a clarionct in 
A, played only in the chalumeau register; but then the 
chalumeau, sympathetically sounded, has a richly mel- 
ancholy and noble effect. The one tune he had to play 
throughout suited it perfectly: its subdued passion, 
both in love and devotion, affected the house deeply ; and 
the crowning moment of the drama for most of those 
present was his clasping of Guinevere’s waist as he knelt 
at her feet when she intoxicated him by answering his 
confession with her own. As to Miss Ellen Terry, it 
was the old story, a born actress of real women’s parts 
condemned to figure as a mere artist’s model in costume 


22 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


plays which, from the woman’s point of view, are foolish 
flatteries written by gentlemen for gentlemen. It is 
pathetic to see Miss Terry snatching at some fleeting 
touch of nature in her part, and playing it not only to 
perfection, but often with a parting caress that brings 
it beyond that for an instant as she relinquishes it, very 
loth, and passes on to the next length of arid sham- 
feminine twaddle in blank verse, which she pumps out 
in little rhythmic strokes in a desperate and all too 
obvious effort to make music of it. I should prove 
myself void of the true critic’s passion if I could pass 
with polite commonplaces over what seems to me a 
heartless waste of an exquisite talent. What a theatre 
for a woman of genius to be attached to! Obsolete tom- 
fooleries like “ Robert Macaire,” schoolgirl charades 
like * Nance Oldfield,” blank verse by Wills, Comyns 
Carr, and Calmour, with intervals of hashed Shake- 
speare; and all the time a stream of splendid women’s 
parts pouring from the Ibsen volcano and minor cra- 
ters, and being snapped up by the rising generation. 
Strange, under these circumstances, that it is Mr. 
Irving and not Miss Terry who feels the want of a 
municipal theatre. He has certainly done his best to 
make every one else feel it. 

The rest of the acting 1s the merest stock company 
routine, there being only three real parts in the play. 
Sir Arthur Sullivan (who, in the playbill, drops his 
knighthood whilst Burne-Jones parades his baronetcy ) 
sweetens the sentiment of the scenes here and there by 
penn’orths of orchestral sugarstick, for which the dra- 
matic critics, in their soft-eared innocence, praise him 
above Wagner. The overture and the vocal pieces are 
pretty specimens of his best late work. Some awkward- 
ness in the construction of the play towards the end 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS) 23 


has led the stage manager into a couple of absurdities. 
For instance, when the body of Elaine is done with, 
it should be taken off the stage and not put in the 
corner like a portmanteau at a railway station. I do 
not know what is supposed to happen in the last act 
— whether Guinevere is alive or a ghost when she comes 
in at Arthur’s death (I understood she was being burnt. 
behind the scenes), or what becomes of Lancelot and 
Mordred, or who on earth the two gentlemen are who 
come in successively to interview the dying Arthur, or 
why the funeral barge should leave Mr. Irving lying 
on the stage and bear off to bliss an impostor with a 
strikingly different nose. In fact, I understand noth- 
ing that happened after the sudden blossoming out of 
Arthur into Lohengrin, Guinevere into Elsa, Mordred 
into Telramund, and Morgan le Fay into Ortruda in 
the combat scene, in which, by the way, Mr. Comyns 
Carr kills the wrong man, probably from having read 
Wagner carelessly. But I certainly thik something 
might be done to relieve the shock of the whole court 
suddenly bolting and leaving the mortally wounded king 
floundering on the floor without a soul to look after him. 
These trifles are mere specks of dust on a splendid pic- 
ture; but they could easily be brushed off. 


24 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


POOR SHAKESPEARE! 


All’s Well that Ends Well. Performance by the Irving 
Dramatic Club at St. George’s Hall, 22 and 24 Janu- 
ary, 1895. 


' ’ Y HAT a pity it is that the people who love the 
sound of Shakespeare so seldom go on the 
stage! The ear is the sure clue to him: only 

a musician can understand the play of feeling which is 
the real rarity in his early plays. In a deaf nation 
these plays would have died long ago. The moral atti- 
tude in them is conventional and secondhand: the bor- 
rowed ideas, however finely expressed, have not the over- 
powering human interest of those original criticisms of 
life which supply the rhetorical element in his later 
works. Even the individualization which produces that 
old-established British specialty, the Shakespearean 
“delineation of character,” owes all its magic to the 
turn of the line, which lets you into the secret of its 
utterer’s mood and temperament, not by its common- 
place meaning, but by some subtle exaltation, or stulti- 
fication, or slyness, or delicacy, or hesitancy, or what 
not in the sound of it. In short, it is the score and not 
the libretto that keeps the work alive and fresh; and 
this is why only musical critics should be allowed to 
meddle with Shakespeare — especially early Shake- 
speare. Unhappily, though the nation still retains its 
ears, the players and playgoers of this generation are 
for the most part deaf as adders. Their appreciation 
of Shakespeare is sheer hypocrisy, the proof being that 
where an early play of his is revived, they take the 
utmost pains to suppress as much of it as possible, and 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 25 


disguise the rest past recognition, relying for success 
on extraordinary scenic attractions; on very popular 
performers, including, if possible, a famously beautiful 
actress in the leading part; and above all, on Shake- 
speare’s reputation and the consequent submission of 
the British public to be mercilessly bored by each of his 
plays once in their lives, for the sake of being able to 
say they have seen it. And not a soul has the hardihood 
to yawn in the face of the imposture. The manager is 
praised; the bard is praised; the beautiful actress 1s 
praised; and the free list comes early and comes often, 
not without a distinct sense of conferring a handsome 
compliment on the acting manager. And it certainly is 
hard to face such a disappointment without being paid 
for it. For the more enchanting the play is at home by 
the fireside in winter, or out on the heather of a summer 
evening — the more the manager, in his efforts to real- 
ize this enchantment by reckless expenditure on inci- 
dental music, colored lights, dances, dresses, and elab- 
orate rearrangements and dislocations of the play — 
the more, in fact, he departs from the old platform with 
its curtains and its placards inscribed “ A street in 
Mantua,” and so forth, the more hopelessly and vul- 
garly does he miss his mark. Such crown jewels of 
dramatic poetry as “ Twelfth Night” and ‘A Mid- 
summer Night’s Dream,” fade into shabby colored glass 
in his purse; and sincere people who do not know what 
the matter is, begin to babble insufferably about plays 
that are meant for the study and not for the stage. 
Yet once in a blue moon or so there wanders on to 
the stage some happy fair whose eyes are lode-stars and 
whose tongue’s sweet air’s more tunable than lark to 
shepherd’s ear. And the moment she strikes up the 
true Shakespearean music, and feels her way to her 


26 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


part altogether by her sense of that music, the play 
returns to life and all the magic is there. She may 
make nonsense of the verses by wrong conjunctions and 
misplaced commas, which show that she has never 
worked out the logical construction of a single sen- 
tence in her part; but if her heart is in the song, the 
protesting commentator-critic may save his breath to 
cool his porridge: the soul of the play is there, no mat- 
ter where the sense of it may be. We have all heard 
Miss Rehan perform this miracle with ‘“ Twelfth 
Night,” and turn it, in spite of the impossible Mr. 
Daly, from a hopelessly ineffective actress show into 
something like the exquisite poem its author left it. All 
I can remember of the last performance I witnessed of 
‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is that Miss Kate 
Rorke got on the stage somehow and began to make 
some music with Helena’s lines, with the result that 
Shakespeare, who had up to that moment lain without 
sense or motion, immediately began to stir uneasily and 
show signs of quickening, which lasted until the others 
took up the word and struck him dead. 

Powerful among the enemies of Shakespeare are the 
commentator and the elocutionist: the commentator 
because, not knowing Shakespeare’s language, he 
sharpens his reasoning faculty to examine propositions 
advanced by an eminent lecturer from the Midlands, 
instead of sensitizing his artistic faculty to receive the 
impression of moods and inflexions of feeling conveyed 
by word-music; the elocutionist because he is a born 
fool, in which capacity, observing with pain that poets 
have a weakness for imparting to their dramatic dia- 
logue a quality which he describes and deplores as 
“ singsong,”” he devotes his life to the art of breaking 
up verse in such a way as to make it sound like insanely 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 27 


pompous prose. The effect of this on Shakespeare’s 
earlier verse, which is full of the naive delight of pure 
oscillation, to be enjoyed as an Italian enjoys a bar- 
carolle, or a child a swing, or a baby a rocking-cradle, 
is destructively stupid. In the later plays, where the 
barcarolle measure has evolved into much more varied 
and complex rhythms, it does not matter so much, 
since the work is no longer simple enough for a fool to 
pick to pieces. But in every play from “ Love’s La- 
bour ’s Lost ” to “ Henry V,” the elocutionist meddles 
simply as a murderer, and ought to be dealt with as 
such without benefit of clergy. To our young people 
studying for the stage I say, with all solemnity, learn 
how to pronounce the English alphabet clearly and 
beautifully from some person who is at once an artist 
and a phonetic expert. And then leave blank verse 
patiently alone until you have experienced emotion deep 
enough to crave for poetic expression, at which point 
verse will seem an absolutely natural and real form of 
speech to you. Meanwhile, if any pedant, with an un- 
cultivated heart and a theoretic ear, proposes to teach 
you to recite, send instantly for the police. 

Among Shakespeare’s earlier plays, “ All ’s Well that 
Ends Well” stands out artistically by the sovereign 
charm of the young Helena and the old Countess of 
Rousillon, and intellectually by the experiment, re- 
peated nearly three hundred years later in “ A Doll’s 
House ” of making the hero a perfectly ordinary young 
man, whose unimaginative prejudices and selfish conven- 
tionality make him cut a very mean figure in the atmos- 
phere created by the nobler nature of his wife. That is 
what gives a certain plausibility to the otherwise doubt- 
ful tradition that Shakespeare did not succeed in get- 
ting his play produced (founded on the absence of any 


28 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


record of a performance of it during his lifetime). It 
certainly explains why Phelps, the only modern actor- 
manager tempted by it, was attracted by the part of 
Parolles, a capital study of the adventurous yarn-spin- 
ning society-struck coward, who also crops up again in 
modern fiction as the hero of Charles Lever’s under- 
rated novel, “ A Day’s Ride: a Life’s Romance.” 
When I saw “ All’s Well ” announced for performance 
by the Irving Dramatic Club, I was highly interested, 
especially as the performers were free, for once, to play 
Shakespeare for Shakespeare’s sake. Alas! at this 
amateur performance, at which there need have been 
none of the miserable commercialization compulsory at 
the regular theatres, I suffered all the vulgarity and 
absurdity of that commercialism without its efficiency. 
We all know the stock objection of the Brixton Family 
Shakespeare to “ All’s Well ” — that the heroine is a 
lady doctor, and that no lady of any delicacy could 
possibly adopt a profession which involves the possi- 
bility of her having to attend cases such as that of the 
king in this play, who suffers from a fistula. How any 
sensible and humane person can have ever read this 
sort of thing without a deep sense of its insult to every 
charitable woman’s humanity and every sick man’s 
suffering is, fortunately, getting harder to understand 
nowadays than it once was. Nevertheless “ All’s 
Well” was minced with strict deference to it for the 
members of the Irving Dramatic Club. The rule for 
expurgation was to omit everything that the most pes- 
tiferously prurient person could find improper. For 
example, when the non-commissioned officer, with quite 
becoming earnestness and force, says to the disgraced 
Parolles: “If you could find out a country where but 
women were that had received so much shame, you might 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS) 29 


begin an impudent nation,” the speech was suppressed 
as if it were on all fours with the obsolete Elizabethan 
badinage which is and should be cut out as a matter 
of course. And to save Helena from anything so shock- 
ing as a reference to her virginity, she was robbed of 
that rapturous outburst beginning 


“There shall your master have a thousand loves — 
A mother and a mistress and a friend,” etc. 


But perhaps this was sacrificed in deference to the 
opinion of the editor of those pretty and handy little 
books called the Temple Shakespeare, who compares the 
passage to “the nonsense of some foolish conceited 
player ” — a criticism which only a commentator could 
hope to live down. 

The play was, of course, pulled to pieces in order 
that some bad scenery, totally unconnected with Flor- 
ence or Rousillon, might destroy all the illusion which 
the simple stage directions in the book create, and 
which they would equally have created had they been 
printed on a placard and hung up on a curtain. The 
passage of the Florentine army beneath the walls of 
the city was managed in the manner of the end of the 
first act of Robertson’s “Ours,” the widow and the 
girls looking out of their sitting-room window, whilst 
a few of the band gave a precarious selection from the 
orchestral parts of Berlioz’s version of the Rackoczy 
March. The dresses were the usual fancy ball odds and 
ends, Helena especially distinguishing herself by play- 
ing the first scene partly in the costume of Hamlet and 
partly in that of a waitress in an Aerated Bread shop, 
set off by a monstrous auburn wig which could by no 
stretch of imagination be taken for her own hair. 
Briefly, the whole play was vivisected, and the frag- 


30 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ments mutilated, for the sake of accessories which were 
in every particular silly and ridiculous. If they were 
meant to heighten the illusion, they were worse than 
failures, since they rendered illusion almost impossible. 
If they were intended as illustrations of place and 
period, they were ignorant impostures. I have seen 
poetic plays performed without costumes before a pair 
of curtains by ladies and gentlemen in evening dress 
with twenty times the effect: nay, I will pledge my 
reputation that if the members of the Irving Dramatic 
Club will take their books in their hands, sit in a Christy 
Minstrel semicircle, and read the play decently as it was 
written, the result will be a vast improvement on this 
St. George’s Hall travesty. 

Perhaps it would not be altogether kind to leave 
these misguided but no doubt well-intentioned ladies and 
gentlemen without a word of appreciation from their 
own point of view. Only, there is not much to be said 
for them even from that point of view. Few living ac- 
tresses could throw themselves into the sustained trans- 
port of exquisite tenderness and impulsive courage 
which makes poetry the natural speech of Helena. ‘The 
cool young woman, with a superior understanding, ex- 
cellent manners, and a habit of reciting Shakespeare, 
presented before us by Miss Olive Kennett, could not 
conceivably have been even Helena’s thirty-second 
cousin. Miss Lena Heinckey, with the most beautiful 
old woman’s part ever written in her hands, discovered 
none of its wonderfully pleasant good sense, humanity, 
and originality: she grieved stagily all through in the 
manner of the Duchess of York in Cibber’s “ Richard 
Ill.” Mr. Lewin-Mannering did not for an instant 
make it possible to believe that Parolles was a real 
person to him. They all insisted on calling him parole, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 31 


instead of Parolles, in three syllables, with the s sounded 
at the end, as Shakespeare intended: consequently, 
when he came to the couplet which cannot be negotiated 
on any other terms: 


“Rust, sword; cool, blushes; and, Parolles, thrive; 
There ’s place and means for every man alive,” 


he made a desperate effort to get even with it by 
saying: 


“ Rust, rapier; cool, blushes; and, parole, thrive,” 


and seemed quite disconcerted when he found that it 
would not do. lLafeu is hardly a part that can be 
acted: it comes right if the right man is available: if 
not, no acting can conceal the makeshift. Mr. Herbert 
Everitt was not the right man; but he made the best 
of it. The clown was evidently willing to relish his 
own humor if only he could have seen it; but there are 
few actors who would not have gone that far. Bertram 
(Mr. Patrick Munro), if not the most intelligent of 
Bertrams, played the love scene with Diana with some 
passion. The rest of the parts, not being character 
studies, are tolerably straightforward and easy of exe- 
cution; and they were creditably played, the king (Mr. 
Ernest Meads) carrying off the honors, and Diana 
(Mrs. Herbert Morris) acquitting herself with com- 
parative distinction. But I should not like to see an- 
other such performance of “ All’s Well” or any other 
play that is equally rooted in my deeper affections. 


82 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


AN OLD NEW PLAY AND A NEW 
OLD ONE 


The Importance of Being Earnest: a trivial comedy 
for serious people. By Osear Wilde. St. James’s 
Theatre, 14 February, 1895. 

? A play in ? acts. By ?. Opera Comique, 16 Feb- 
ruary, 1895. 

The Second Mrs. Tanqueray: a play in four acts. By 
Arthur W. Pinero. London: W. Heinemann. 1895. 


who does not usually model himself on Mr. Henry 

Arthur Jones, giving his latest play a five-cham- 
bered title like “‘ The Case of Rebellious Susan.” So I 
suggest with some confidence that “ The Importance of 
Being Earnest ” dates from a period long anterior to 
Susan. However it may have been retouched immedi- 
ately before its production, it must certainly have been 
written before “ Lady Windermere’s Fan.” I do not 
suppose it to be Mr. Wilde’s first play: he is too sus- 
ceptible to fine art to have begun otherwise than with 
a strenuous imitation of a great dramatic poem, Greek 
or Shakespearean; but it was perhaps the first which 
he designed for practical commercial use at the West 
End theatres. The evidence of this is abundant. The 
play has a plot—a gross anachronism; there is a 
scene between the two girls in the second act quite 
in the literary style of Mr. Gilbert, and almost inhuman 
enough to have been conceived by him; the humor 1s 
adulterated by stock mechanical fun to an extent that 
absolutely scandalizes one in a play with such an 
author’s name to it; and the punning title and several 


|: is somewhat surprising to find Mr. Oscar Wilde, 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 33 


of the more farcical passages recall the epoch of the 
late H. J. Byron. The whole has been varnished, and 
here and there veneered, by the author of “ A Woman 
of no Importance”; but the general effect is that of 
a farcical comedy dating from the seventies, unplayed 
during that period because it was too clever and too 
decent, and brought up to date as far as possible by 
Mr. Wilde in his now completely formed style. Such 
is the impression left by the play on me. But I find 
other critics, equally entitled to respect, declaring that 
“The Importance of Being Earnest” is a strained 
effort of Mr. Wilde’s at ultra-modernity, and that it 
could never have been written but for the opening up 
of entirely new paths in drama last year by “ Arms and 
the Man.” At which I confess to a chuckle. 

I cannot say that I greatly cared for “ The Impor- 
tance of Being Earnest.” It amused me, of course; 
but unless comedy touches me as well as amuses me, it 
leaves me with a sense of having wasted my evening. 
I go to the theatre to be moved to laughter, not to 
be tickled or bustled into it; and that is why, though 
I laugh as much as anybody at a farcical comedy, J am 
out of spirits before the end of the second act, and out 
of temper before the end of the third, my miserable 
mechanical laughter intensifying these symptoms at 
every outburst. If the public ever becomes mtelligent 
enough to know when it is really enjoying itself and 
when it is not, there will be an end of farcical comedy. 
Now in “ The Importance of Being Earnest ” there is 
a good deal of this rib-tickling: for mstance, the lies, 
the deceptions, the cross-purposes, the sham mourning, 
the christening of the two grown-up men, the muffin 
eating, and so forth. These could only have been 
raised from the farcical plane by making them occur to 


84 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


characters who had, like Don Quixote, convinced us of 
their reality and obtained some hold on our sympathy. 
But that unfortunate moment of Gilbertism breaks our 
belief in the humanity of the play. Thus we are thrown 
back on the force of daintiness of its wit, brought home 
by an exquisitely grave, natural, and unconscious exe- 
cution on the part of the actors. Alas! the latter is 
not forthcoming. Mr. Kinsey Peile as a man-servant, 
and Miss Irene Vanburgh as Gwendolen Fairfax, alone 
escaped from a devastating consciousness of Mr. 
Wilde’s reputation, which more or less preoccupied all 
the rest, except perhaps Miss Millard, with whom all 
comedy is a preoccupation, since she is essentially a 
sentimental actress. In such passages as the Gilbertian 
quarrel with Gwendolen, her charm rebuked the scene 
instead of enhancing it. The older ladies were, if they 
will excuse my saying so, quite maddening. ‘The vio- 
lence of their affectation, the insufferable low comedy 
soars and swoops of the voice, the rigid shivers of 
elbow, shoulder, and neck, which are supposed on the 
stage to characterize the behavior of ladies after the 
age of forty, played havoe with the piece. In Miss 
Rose Leclerq a good deal of this sort of thing is only 
the mannerism of a genuine if somewhat impossible 
style; but Miss Leclerq was absent through indispo- 
sition on the night of my visit, so that I had not her 
style to console me. Mr. Aynesworth’s easy-going 
“Our Boys” style of play suited his part rather 
happily; and Mr. Alexander’s graver and more refined 
manner made the right contrast with it. But Mr. 
Alexander, after playing with very nearly if not quite 
perfect conviction in the first two acts, suddenly lost 
confidence in the third, and began to spur up for a 
rattling finish. From the moment that began, the play 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 35 


was done with. ‘The speech in which Worthing forgives 
his supposed mother, and the business of searching the 
army lists, which should have been conducted with sub- 
dued earnestness, was bustled through to the destruc- 
tion of all verisimilitude and consequently all interest. 
That is the worst of having any one who is not an in- 
veterate and hardened comedian in a leading comedy 
part. His faith, patience, and relish begin to give out 
after a time; and he finally commits the unpardonable 
sin against the author of giving the signal that the play 
is over ten minutes before the fall of the curtain, in- 
stead of speaking the last line as if the whole evening 
were still before the audience. Mr. Alexander does not 
throw himself genuinely into comedy: he condescends 
. to amuse himself with it; and in the end he finds that 
he cannot condescend enough. On the whole I must 
decline to accept “‘ The Importance of Being Earnest ” 
as a day less than ten years old; and I am altogether 
unable to perceive any uncommon excellence in its 
presentation. 

I am in a somewhat foolish position concerning a 
play at the Opera Comique, whither I was bidden this 
day week. For some reason I was not supplied with a 
programme; so that I never learnt the name of the 
play. I believe I recognized some of the members of the 
company — generally a very difficult thing to do in a 
country where, with a few talented exceptions, every 
actor is just like « -y other actor — but they have 
now faded from my memory. At the end of the second 
act the play had advanced about as far as an ordinary 
dramatist would have brought it five minutes after the 
first rising of the curtain; or, say, as far as Ibsen 
would have brought it ten years before that event. 
Taking advantage of the second interval to stroll out 


36 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


into the Strand for a little exercise, I unfortunately 
forgot all about my business, and actually reached 
home before it occurred to me that I had not seen 
the end of the play. Under these circumstances it 
would ill become me to dogmatize on the merits of the 
work or its performance. I can only offer the manage- 
ment my apologies. 

I am indebted to Mr. Heinemann for a copy of 
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” which he has just 
published in a five-shilling volume, with an excellent 
photographie portrait of the author by Mr. Hollyer. 
Those who did not see the play at the St. James’s 
Theatre can now examine the literary basis of the work 
that so immoderately fascinated playgoing London in 
1898. But they must not expect the play to be as 
imposing in the library as it was on the stage. Its 
merit there was relative to the culture of the playgoing 
public. Paula Tanqueray is an astonishingly well- 
drawn figure as stage figures go nowadays, even allow- 
ing for the fact that there is no cheaper subject for 
the character draughtsman than the ill-tempered sen- 
sual woman seen from the point of view of the conven- 
tional man. But off the stage her distinction vanishes. 
The novels of Anthony Trollope, Charles Lever, Bulwer 
Lytton, Charles Reade, and many other novelists, whom 
nobody praised thirty years ago in the terms in whieh 
Mr. Pinero is praised now, are full of feats of character 
drawing in no way inferior —to say the least — to 
Mr. Pinero’s. The theatre was not ready for that class 
of work then: it is now; and accordingly Mr. Pinero, 
who in literature is a humble and somewhat belated fol- 
lower of the novelists of the middle of the nineteenth 
century, and who has never written a line from which 
it could be guessed that he is a contemporary of Ibsen, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 387 


Tolstoi, Meredith, or Sarah Grand, finds himself at the 
dawn of the twentieth hailed as a man of new ideas, of 
daring originality, of supreme literary distinction, and 
even — which is perhaps oddest — of consummate stage 
craft. Stage craft, after all, is very narrowly limited 
by the physical conditions of stage representation; but 
when one turns over the pages of ** The Second Mrs. 
Tanqueray,”’ and notes the nalve machinery of the ex- 
position in the first act, in which two whole actors are 
wasted on sham parts, and the hero, at his own dinner 
party, 1s compelled to get up and go ignominiously into 
the next room “ to write some letters ” when something 
has to be said behind his back; when one follows Cayley 
Drummle, the confidant to whom both Paula and her 
husband explain themselves for the benefit of the audi- 
ence; when one counts the number of doors which Mr. 
Pinero needs to get his characters on and off the stage, 
_ and how they have finally to be supplemented by the 
inevitable “ French windows ” (two of them) ; and when 
the activity of the postman is taken into consideration, 
it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that what most 
of our critics mean by mastery of stage craft is reck- 
lessness in the substitution of dead machinery and lay 
figures for vital action and real characters. I do not 
deny that an author may be driven by his own limita- 
tions to ingenuities which Shakespeare had no occasion 
to cultivate, just as a painter without hands or feet 
learns to surpass Michael Angelo in the art of drawing 
with the brush held in the mouth; but I regard such 
Ingenuity as an extremity to be deplored, not as an art 
to be admired. In “ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” I 
find little except a scaffold for the situation of a step- 
daughter and a step-mother finding themselves in the 
positions respectively of affianced wife and discarded 


38 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


mistress to the same man. Obviously, the only neces- 
sary conditions of this situation are that the persons 
concerned shall be respectable enough to be shocked 
by it, and that the step-mother shall be an improper 
person. Mr. Pinero has not got above this minimum. 
He is, of course, sufficiently skilled in fiction to give 
Ellean, Mrs. Cortelyon, Ardale, Tanqueray, and Cayley 
Drummle a passable air of being human beings. He has 
even touched up Cayley into a Thackerayan flaneur in 
order to secure toleration of his intrusiveness. But 
who will pretend that any of these figures are more than 
the barest accessories to the main situation? To com- 
pare them with the characters in Robertson’s “ Caste ” 
would be almost as ridiculous as to compare “ Caste ” 
with “ A Doll’s House.” The two vulgar characters 
produce the requisite jar—a pitilessly disagreeable 
jar — and that is all. Still, all the seven seem good 
as far as they go; and that very little way may sug- 
gest that Mr. Pinero might have done good creative 
work if he had carried them further. Unfortunately 
for this surmise, he has carried Paula further; and 
with what result? The moment the point is reached 
at which the comparatively common gift of “ an eye for 
character ” has to be supplemented by the higher dra- 
matic gift of sympathy with character — of the power 
of seeing the world from the point of view of others 
instead of merely describing or judging them from one’s 
own point of view in terms of the conventional systems 
of morals, Mr. Pinero breaks down. I remember that 
when I saw the play acted I sat up very attentively 
when Tanqueray said to Paula, “ I know what you were 
at Ellean’s age. You hadn’t a thought that wasn’t 
a wholesome one; you had n’t an impulse that did n’t 
tend towards good; you never harbored a notion you 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS — 39 


could n’t have gossiped about to a parcel of children. 
And this was a very few years back,” etc., etc. On the 
reply to that fatuous but not unnatural speech de- 
pended the whole question of Mr. Pinero’s rank as a 
dramatist. One can imagine how, in a play by a 
master-hand, Paula’s reply would have opened Tan- 
queray’s foolish eyes to the fact that a woman of 
that sort is already the same at three as she is at 
thirty-three, and that however she may have found 
by experience that her nature is in conflict with the 
ideals of differently constituted people, she remains 
perfectly valid to herself, and despises herself, 1f she 
sincerely does so at all, for the hypocrisy that the world 
forces on her instead of for being what she 1s. What 
reply does Mr. Pinero put into her mouth? Here it is, 
with the stage directions: “ A few— years ago! (She 
walks slowly towards the door, then suddenly drops 
upon the ottoman in a parorysm of weeping.) O God! 
A few years ago!” That is to say, she makes her reply 
from the Tanqueray-Ellean-Pinero point of view, and 
thus betrays the fact that she is a work of prejudiced 
observation instead of comprehension, and that the 
other characters only owe their faint humanity to the 
fact that they are projections of Mr. Pinero’s own per- 
sonal amiabilities and beliefs and conventions. Mr. 
Pinero, then, is no interpreter of character, but simply 
an adroit describer of people as the ordinary man sees 
and judges them. Add to this a clear head, a love of 
the stage, and a fair talent for fiction, all highly culti- 
vated by hard and honorable work as a writer of effec- 
tive stage plays for the modern commercial theatre; 
and you have him on his real level. On that level he 
is entitled to all the praise “ The Second Mrs. Tan- 
queray ” has won him; and I very heartily regret that 


40 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the glamor which Mrs. Patrick Campbell cast round the 
play has forced me to examine pretensions which Mr. 
Pinero himself never put forward rather than to ac- 
knowledge the merits with which his work is so concisely 
packed. 


MR. PINERO’S NEW PLAY 


The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith: an original play in 
four acts. By A. W. Pinero. Garrick Theatre, 13 
March, 1895. 


M PINERO’S new play is an attempt to repro- 


duce that peculiar stage effect of intellectual 

drama, of social problem, of subtle psycho- 
logical study of character, in short, of a great play, 
with which he was so successful in “ The Profligate ” 
and “ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.” In the two earlier 
plays, it will be remembered, he was careful to support 
this stage effect with a substantial basis of ordinary 
dramatic material, consisting of a well worked-up and 
well worn situation which would have secured the suc- 
cess of a conventional Adelphi piece. In this way he 
conquered the public by the exquisite flattery of giving 
them plays that they really liked, whilst persuading 
them that such appreciation was only possible from 
persons of great culture and intellectual acuteness. 
The vogue of “ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” was due 
to the fact that the commonplace playgoer, as he ad- 
mired Mrs. Patrick Campbell, and was moved for the 
twentieth time by the conventional wicked woman with 
a past, consumed with remorse at the recollection of her 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 41 


innocent girlhood, and unable to look her pure step- 
daughter (from a convent) in the face, believed that he 
was one of the select few for whom “the literary 
drama ” exists, and thus combined the delights of an 
evening at a play which would not have puzzled Ma- 
dame Celeste with a sense of being immensely in the 
modern movement. Mr. Pinero, in effect, invented a 
new sort of play by taking the ordinary article and 
giving it an air of novel, profound, and original 
thought. ‘This he was able to do because he was an 
inveterate “ character actor ” (a technical term denot- 
ing a clever stage performer who cannot act, and there- 
fore makes an elaborate study of the disguises and stage 
tricks by which acting can be grotesquely simulated ) 
as well as a competent dramatist on customary lines. 
His performance as a thinker and social philosopher 
is simply character acting in the domain of authorship, 
and can impose only on those who are taken in by 
character acting on the stage. It is only the make-up 
of an actor who does not understand his part, but who 
knows — because he shares — the popular notion of its 
externals. As such, it can never be the governing fac- 
tor in his success, which must always depend on the 
commonplace but real substratum of ordinary drama in 
his works. Thus his power to provide Mrs. Tanqueray 
with equally popular successors depends on his freedom 
from the illusion he has himself created as to his real 
strength lying in his acuteness as a critic of life. Given 
a good play, the stage effect of philosophy will pass 
with those who are no better philosophers than he; but 
when the play is bad, the air of philosophy can only 
add to its insufferableness. In the case of ‘* The No- 
torious Mrs. Ebbsmith,” the play is bad. But one of 
its defects: to wit, the unreality of the chief female 


42 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


character, who is fully as artificial as Mrs. Tanqueray 
herself, has the lucky effect of setting Mrs. Patrick 
Campbell free to do as she pleases in it, the result 
being an irresistible projection of that lady’s personal 
genius, a projection which sweeps the play aside and 
imperiously becomes the play itself. Mrs. Patrick 
Campbell, in fact, pulls her author through by playing 
him clean off the stage. She creates all sorts of illu- 
sions, and gives one all sorts of searching sensations. 
It is impossible not to feel that those haunting eyes are 
brooding on a momentous past, and the parted lips 
anticipating a thrilling imminent future, whilst some 
enigmatic present must no less surely be working 
underneath all that subtle play of limb and stealthy 
intensity of tone. Clearly there must be a great 
tragedy somewhere in the immediate neighborhood; and 
most of my colleagues will no doubt tell us that this 
imaginary masterpiece is Mr. Pinero’s ‘‘ Notorious 
Mrs. Ebbsmith.” But Mr. Pinero has hardly anything 
to do with it. When the curtain comes down, you are 
compelled to admit that, after all, nothing has come 
of it except your conviction that Mrs. Patrick Camp- 
bell is a wonderful woman. Let us put her out of 
the question for a moment and take a look at Mrs. 
Ebbsmith. 

To begin with, she is what has been called “a plat- 
form woman.” She is the daughter of a Secularist 
agitator—-say a minor Bradlaugh. After eight 
years of married life, during which she was for one 
year her husband’s sultana, and for the other seven his 
housekeeper, she has emerged into widowhood and an 
active carcer as an agitator, speaking from the plat- 
forms formerly occupied by her father. Although edu- 
cated, well conducted, beautiful, and a sufficiently pow- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 43 


erful speaker to produce a great effect in Trafalgar 
Square, she loses her voice from starvation, and has to 
fall back on nursing —a piece of fiction which shows 
that Mr. Pinero has not the faintest idea of what such 
a woman’s career is in reality. He may take my word 
for it that a lady with such qualifications would be 
very much better off than a nurse; and that the plinth 
of the Nelson column, the “ pitch ” in the park, and the 
little meeting halls in poor parishes, all of which he 
speaks of with such an exquisitely suburban sense of 
their being the dark places of the earth, enter nowa- 
days very largely into the political education of almost 
all publicly active men and women; so that the Duke 
of St. Olpherts, when he went to that iron building 
in St. Luke’s, and saw “ Mad Agnes ” on the platform, 
might much more probably have found there a future 
Cabinet Minister, a lady of his own ducal family, or 
even a dramatic critic. However, the mistakes into 
which Mr. Pinero has been led by his want of practical 
acquaintance with the business of political agitation are 
of no great dramatic moment. We may forgive a mod- 
ern British dramatist for supposing that Mrs. Besant, 
for example, was an outcast on the brink of starvation 
in the days when she graduated on the platform, al- 
though we should certainly not tolerate such 1uonsense 
from any intellectually responsible person. But Mr. 
Pinero has made a deeper mistake. He has fallen into 
the common error of supposing that the woman who 
speaks in public and takes an interest in wider con- 
cerns than those of her own household is a special 
variety of the human species; that she “ Trafalgar 
Squares ” aristocratic visitors in her drawing-room; 
and that there is something dramatic in her discovery 
that she has the common passions of humanity. 


44. DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Mrs. Ebbsmith, in the course of her nursing, finds a 
patient who falls in love with her. He is married to a 
shrew; and he proposes to spend the rest of his life 
with his nurse, preaching the horrors of marriage. Off 
the stage it is not customary for a man and woman 
to assume that they cannot co-operate in bringing 
about social reform without living together as man 
and wife: on the stage, this is considered inevitable. 
Mrs. Ebbsmith rebels against the stage so far as to pro- 
pose that they shall prove their disinterestedness by 
making the partnership a friendly business one only. 
She then finds out that he does not really care a rap 
about her ideas, and that his attachment to her is sim- 
ply sexual. Here we start with a dramatic theme ca- 
pable of interesting development. Mr. Pinero, unable 
to develop it, lets it slip through his fingers after one 
feeble clutch at it, and proceeds to degrade his drama 
below the ordinary level by making the woman declare 
that her discovery of the nature of the man’s feelings 
puts within her reach “ the only one hour in a woman’s 
life,’ in pursuance of which detestable view she puts 
on an indecent dress and utterly abandons herself to 
him. <A clergyman appears at this crisis, and offers her 
a Bible. She promptly pitches it into the stove; and 
a thrill of horror runs through the audience as they see, 
in imagination, the whole Christian Church tottering 
before their eyes. Suddenly, with a wild scream, she 
plunges her hand into the glowing stove and pulls out 
the Bible again. The Church is saved; and the cur- 
tain descends amid thunders of applause. In that ap- 
plause I hope I need not say I did not join. A less 
sensible and less courageous stage effect I have never 
witnessed. If Mr. Pinero had created for us a woman 
whose childhood had been made miserable by the gloomy 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 45 


terrorism which vulgar, fanatical parents extract from 
the Bible, then he might fitly have given some of the 
public a very wholesome lesson by making the woman 
thrust the Bible into the stove and leave it there. 
Many of the most devoted clergymen of the Church of 
England would, I can assure him, have publicly thanked 
him for such a lesson. But to introduce a woman as to 
whom we are carefully assured that she was educated as 
a secularist, and whose one misfortune — her unhappy 
marriage — can hardly by any stretch of casuistry be 
laid to the charge of St. Paul’s teaching; to make this 
woman senselessly say that all her misfortunes are due 
to the Bible; to make her throw it into the stove, and 
then injure herself horribly in pulling it out again: 
this, I submit, is a piece of claptrap so gross that it 
absolves me from all obligation to treat Mr. Pinero’s 
art as anything higher than the barest art of the theat- 
rical sensation. As in “ The Profligate,” as in “ The 
Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” he has had no idea beyond 
that of doing something daring and bringing down the 
house by running away from the consequences. 

I must confess that I have no criticism for all this 
stuff. Mr. Pinero is quite right to try his hand at the 
higher drama; only he will never succeed on his pres- 
ent method of trusting to his imagination, which seems 
to me to have been fed originally on the novels and 
American humor of forty years ago, and of late to 
have been entirely starved. I strongly recommend him 
to air his ideas a little in Hyde Park or “the Iron 
Hall, St. Luke’s,” before he writes his next play. I 
shall be happy to take the chair for him. 

I should, by the way, like to know the truth about 
the great stage effect at the end of the second act, 
where Mrs. Patrick Campbell enters with her plain and 


46 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


very becoming dress changed for a horrifying confec- 
tion apparently made of Japanese bronze wall-paper 
with a bold pattern of stamped gold. Lest the maker 
should take an action against me and obtain ruinous 
damages, I hasten to say that the garment was well 
made, the skirt and train perfectly hung, and the 
bodice, or rather waistband, fitting flawlessly. But, 
as I know nothing of the fashion in evening dresses, it 
was cut rather lower in the pectoral region than I ex- 
pected; and it was, to my taste, appallingly ugly. So 
I fully believed that the effect intended was a terrible 
rebuke to the man’s complaint that Mrs. Ebbsmith’s 
previous dress was only fit for “‘a dowdy demagogue.” 
Conceive my feelings when every one on the stage went 
into ecstasies of admiration. Can Mr. Pinero have 
shared that admiration? As the hero of a recent play 
observes, “ That is the question that torments me.” 

A great deal of the performance is extremely tedious. 
The first twenty minutes, with its intolerable, unneces- 
sary, and unintelligible explanations about the relation- 
ships of the characters, should be ruthlessly cut out. 
Half the stage business is only Mr. Pinero’s old “ char- 
acter actor’’ nonsense; and much of the other half 
might be executed during the dialogue, and not between 
the sentences. The company need to be reminded that 
the Garrick is a theatre in which very distinct utterance 
is desirable. The worrying from time to time about the 
stove should be dropped, as it does not in the least fulfil 
its purpose of making the Bible incident — which 1s 
badly stage managed — seem more natural when it 
comes. 

Mr. Hare, in the stalest of parts, gives us a perfect 
piece of acting, not only executed with extraordinary 
fineness, but conceived so as to produce a strong illu- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 47 


sion that there is a real character there, whereas there 
is really nothing but that hackneyed simulacrum of a 
cynical and epigrammatic old libertine who has helped 
to carry on so many plots. Mr. Forbes Robertson lent 
himself to the hero, and so enabled him to become inter- 
esting on credit. Miss Jeffreys, miraculously ill fitted 
with her part, was pleasant for the first five minutes, 
during which she was suggesting a perfectly different 
sort of person to that which she afterwards vainly pre- 
tended to become. ‘The other characters were the 
merest stock figures, convincing us that Mr. Pinero 
either never meets anybody now, or else that he has 
lost the power of observation. Many passages in the 
play, of course, have all the qualities which have gained 
Mr. Pinero his position as a dramatist; but I shall not 
dwell on them, as, to tell the truth, I disliked the play 
so much that nothing would induce me to say anything 
good of it. And here let me warn the reader to care- 
fully discount my opinion in view of the fact that I 
write plays myself, and that my school is in violent 
reaction against that of Mr. Pinero. But my criticism 
has not, I hope, any other fault than the inevitable one 
of extreme unfairness. 


48 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


THE INDEPENDENT THEATRE 
REPENTS 


A Man’s Love: a play in three acts, from the Dutch 
of J. C. de Yos; and Salvé, a Dramatic Fragment, in 
one act, by Mrs. Oscar Beringer. The Independent 
Theatre (Opéra Comique), 15 March, 1895. 


respectable. Nobody now clamors for the prose- 

cution of Mr. Grein under Lord Campbell’s Act, 
or denounces myself and the other frequenters of the 
performances as neurotic, cretinous degenerates. This 
is not as it should be. In my barbarous youth, when 
one of the pleasures of theatre-going was the fierce 
struggle at the pit-door, I learnt a lesson which I have 
never forgotten: namely, that the secret of getting in 
was to wedge myself into the worst of the crust. When 
ribs and breastbone were on the verge of collapse, and 
the stout lady in front, after passionately calling on 
her escort to take her out of it if he considered himself 
a man, had resigned herself to death, my hopes of a 
place in the front row ran high. If the pressure slack- 
encd I knew I was being extruded into the side eddies 
where the feeble and half-hearted were throwing away 
their chance of a good seat for such paltry indulgences 
as freedom to breathe and a fully expanded skeleton. 
The progressive man goes through life on the same 
principle, instinctively making for the focus of struggle 
and resisting the tendency to cdge him out into the 
place of ease. When the Independent Theatre was 
started, its supporters all made for it, I presume — 
certainly I did — because it was being heavily squeezed. 


1 Independent Theatre is becoming wretchedly 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 49 


There was one crowded moment when, after the first 
performance of “ Ghosts,” the atmosphere of London 
was black with vituperation, with threats, with clamor 
for suppression and extinction, with everything that 
makes life worth living in modern society. I have my- 
self stood before the independent footlights in obedience 
to my vocation (literally) as dramatic author, drink- 
ing in the rapture of such a hooting from the outraged 
conventional first-nighter as even Mr. Henry James 
might have envied. But now that glory has departed 
to the regular theatres. My poor little audacity of a 
heroine who lost her temper and shook her housemaid 
has been eclipsed by heroines who throw the Bible into 
the fire. Mr. Grein, no longer a revolutionist, is mod- 
estly bidding for the position left vacant by the death 
of German Reed, and will shortly be consecrated by 
public opinion as the manager of the one theatre in 
London that is not a real wicked Pinerotic theatre, and 
is, consequently, the only theatre in London that it is 
not wrong for good people to go to. His latest playbill 
is conclusive on this point. It begins with “ A Man’s 
Love,” from the Dutch of J. C. de Vos, and ends with 
*“ Salvé,” by Mrs. Oscar Beringer. The first would be 
contemptuously rejected by Mr. Hare as a snivelling, 
pietistic insult to the spirit of the age; and the second 
might without the least incongruity be played as a 
curtain-raiser before ‘‘ Green Bushes ” or “ The Wreck 
Ashore.” 

The defence to this grave disparagement will prob- 
ably be that, in “A Man’s Love,” the hero makes ad- 
vances to his undeceased wife’s sister, and that 
“ Salvé ” ends unhappily. I cannot allow the excuse. 
Any man, on the stage or off it, may make love to 
his sister-in-law without rousing the faintest sense of 


50 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


unexpectedness in the spectator. And when, as in Mr. 
de Vos’s play, the young lady tells him he ought to be 
ashamed of himself, and leaves the house without mak- 
ing her sister miserable by telling her why, the situation 
becomes positively triter than if he had not made love to 
her at all. There is only one Independent Theatre 
drama to be got out of such a theme; and that is the 
drama of the discovery by the man that he has married 
the wrong sister, and that the most earnest desire on 
the part of all concerned to do their duty does not avail 
against that solid fact. Such a drama occurred in the 
hfe of one of the greatest English writers of the nine- 
teenth century, one who was never accused by his worst 
enemies of being a loose liver. But Mr. de Vos has not 
written that drama, or even pretended to write it. As 
to the unhappy ending of “ Salvé,” unhappy endings 
are not a new development in the theatre, but a rever- 
sion to an older stage phase. I take it that the re- 
cently defunct happy ending, which is merely a means 
of sending the audience away in good humor, was 
brought in by the disappearance of the farce. For- 
merly you had ‘* The Gamester ” to begin with; and 
then, when Beverley had expired yelling from the effects 
of swallowing some powerful mineral irritant, there was 
a screaming farce to finish with. When it suddenly oc- 
curred to the managers that for twenty-five years or so 
no experienced playgoer had ever been known to wait 
for the farce, it was dropped; and nothing was left in 
the bill except the play of the evening and a curtain- 
raiser to keep the gallery amused whilst waiting for the 
plutocracy to finish their dinners and get down to 
their reserved seats. Still the idea of sending away 
the audience in a cheerful temper survived, and led to 
the incorporation of that function of the farce into the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 51 


end of the play. Hence the happy ending. But in 
course of time this produced the same effect as the 
farce. The people got up and made for the doors the 
moment they saw it coming; and managers were re- 
duced to the abject expedient of publishing in the pro- 
gramme a request to the audience not to rise until the 
fall of the curtain. When even this appeal ad miseri- 
cordiam failed, there was nothing for it but to abolish 
the happy ending, and venture on the wild innovation 
of ringing down the curtain the moment the play was 
really over. This brought back the old tragie ending 
of the farce days, which was of course immediately 
hailed, as the custom is whenever some particularly 
ghastly antiquity is trotted out, as the newest feature 
of the new drama. 

So much then for the novelty of Mrs. Beringer’s idea 
of ending her little play by making the mother slay 
her long-lost cheeyild, and go mad then and there like 
Lucia di Lammermoor. Indeed, if Mrs. Theodore 
Wright had struck up “ Spargi d’amaro pianto,”’ with 
flute obligato and variations, my old Italian operatic 
training would have saved me from the least feeling of 
surprise, though the younger generation would cer- 
tainly have thought us both mad. The variations would 
have been quite in keeping with the bags of gold poured 
out on the table, and with the spectacle of a mother 
taking up the breadknife and transfixing her healthy 
young son full in the public view. Is it possible 
that Mrs. Beringer has not yet realized that these 
mock butcheries belong to the babyhood of the drama? 
She may depend on it there is a solid reason for Hedda 
Gabler shooting herself behind the scenes instead of 
stabbing herself before them. In that, Ibsen shakes 
hands with the Greek dramatic poets just as clearly 


52 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


as Mrs. Beringer, with her gory breadknife, shakes 
hands with the most infantile melodramatists of the 
Donizettian epoch. “ Salvé” is not at all a bad piece 
of work of its naive kind: indeed, except for a few 
unactable little bits here and there, it would merit 
high praise at the Pavilion or Marylebone theatres; but 
what, in the name of all that ’s Independent, has it to 
do with the aims of Mr. Grein’s society? 

To find any sort of justification for the performance 
I must turn to the acting — for let me say that I should 
consider Mr. Grein quite in order in giving a perform- 
ance of Robertson’s “ Caste,” followed by “ Box and 
Cox,” if he could handle them so as to suggest fresh 
developments in stage art. Unfortunately, the man- 
agement made an incomprehensible mistake in casting 
‘““ A Man’s Love.” It had at its disposal Miss Winifred 
Fraser and Miss Mary Keegan; and the two women’s 
parts in the play were well suited to their strongly 
contrasted personalities. Accordingly, it put Miss 
Keegan into the part which suited Miss Fraser, and 
Miss Fraser into the part which suited Miss Keegan. 
The two ladies did what they could under the circum- 
stances; but their predicament was hopeless from the 
outset. The resultant awkwardness made the worst 
of the very clumsy devices by which the action of the 
play is maintained — impossible soliloquies, incidents 
off the stage described by people on it as they stare 
at them through the wings, and the like: all, by the 
way, reasons why the Independent Theatre should not 
have produced the work unless these crudities were 
atoned for by boldness or novelty in some other 
direction. 

The two ladies being practically out of the question, 
the burden of the play fell upon Mr. Herbert Flemming, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 53 


whose work presented a striking contrast to the sort 
of thing we are accustomed to from our popular 
‘leading men.” We all know the faultlessly dressed, 
funereally wooden, carefully phrased walking negation 
who is so careful not to do anything that could help or 
hinder our imaginations in mending him into a hero. 
His great secret is to keep quiet, look serious, and, 
above all, not act. To this day you see Mr. Lewis 
Waller and Mr. George Alexander struggling, even in 
the freedom of management, with the habits of the days 
when they were expected to supply this particular style 
of article, and to live under the unwritten law: “ Be a 
nonentity, or you will get cast for villains,” a fate which 
has actually overtaken Mr. Waring because his efforts 
to suppress himself stopped short of absolute inanity. 
Only for certain attractive individual peculiarities 
which have enabled Mr. Forbes Robertson to place 
himself above this law occasionally as a personal privi- 
lege, our stage heroes would be as little distinguishable 
from one another as bricks in a wall. Under these cir- 
cumstances, I was quite staggered to find Mr. Flem- 
ming, though neither a comic actor nor a “ character 
actor,” acting — positively acting — in a sentimental 
leading part. He was all initiative, life, expression, with 
the unhesitating certainty of execution which stamps 
an actor as perfectly safe for every effect within 
his range. This amounted to a combination of the 
proficiency and positive power (as distinguished from 
negative discretion) of the old stock actor, with the 
spontaneity, sensitiveness, and touch with the culti- 
vated non-professional world which the latest develop- 
ments of the drama demand. Mr. Flemming first made 
his mark here by his performances in certain Ibsen 


parts, and by his playing of the hero in Vos’s “ Alex- 


54 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


andra,” Stuttgart’s pet tragedy. Yet when he ap- 
peared recently in such an absurd melodrama as 
“Robbery Under Arms,” he was as equal to the occa- 
sion as the veteran Mr. Clarance Holt; and his return 
without effort to the new style in ‘‘ A Man’s Love ” is 
interesting as a sign that the new drama is at last be- 
ginning to bring in its harvest of technically efficient 
actors, instead of being, as it was at first, thrown into 
hands which were, with one or two brillant exceptions, 
comparatively unskilled. The occasion was not a favor- 
able one for Mr. Flemming — quite the contrary. He 
was not on his mettle; he was in the unmistakable 
attitude of an experienced actor towards a play which 
he knows to be beyond saving; the extent to which he 
fell back on his mere stage habits showed that he had 
refused to waste much time in useless study of a dra- 
matically worthless character, and was simply using 
his professional skill to get through his part without 
damage to his reputation; and he was sometimes taken 
out of the character by his very free recourse to that 
frankly feminine style of play which is up to a certain 
point the secret, and beyond it the mere stage trick, of 
modern acting, and which is enormously effective in a 
man who, like Mr. Flemming, is virile enough to be 
feminine without risk of effeminacy. None the less this 
half-studied performance in a third-rate play at a de- 
pressing matinée (I was not present at the first per- 
formance) was striking enough to demand, at the pres- 
ent moment, all the attention I have given to it. 

Mrs. Theodore Wright, as the mother in “ Salvé,” 
had no difficulty in touching and harrowing the audi- 
ence to the necessary degree. Her acting, also, has the 
imaginative quality which the reviving drama requires. 
She made a mistake or two over Mrs. Beringer’s un- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS | 55 


actable bits, trying to worry some acting into them 
instead of letting them quietly slip by; but that was 
a fault on the right side; and one felt sorry for her 
sake when the breadknife reduced the little play to 
absurdity, and half spoiled the admirable effect of her 
playing in the scenes just before and after her journey 
of intercession. Happily, the audience did not mind the 
breadknife at all, and made her an ovation. 


L’GEUVRE 


Théatre de ’ G@iuvre de Paris. Performances at the 
Opéra Comique, London, of Ibsen’s Rosmersholm and 
Master Builder, and of Maeterlinck’s L’Intruse and 
Pelléas et Mélisande. 25-30 March, 1895. 


M LUGNE-POE and his dramatic company called 


“ L’CEuvre ” came to us with the reputation 

* of having made Ibsen cry by their perform- 

ance of one of his works. There was not much in that: 
I have seen performances by English players which 
would have driven him to suicide. But the first act 
of ‘Rosmersholm ” had hardly begun on Monday 
night, when I recognized, with something like excite- 
ment, the true atmosphere of this most enthralling of 
all Ibsen’s works rising like an enchanted mist for the 
first time on an English stage. There were drawbacks, 
of course. The shabbiness of the scenery did not 
trouble me; but the library of Pastor Rosmer got on 
my nerves a little. What on earth did he want, for in- 
stance, with “ Sell’s World’s Press ”? ‘That he should 
have provided himself with a volume of my own dra- 


56 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


matic works I thought right and natural enough, 
though when he took that particular volume down and 
opened it, I began to speculate rather uneasily on the 
chances of his presently becoming so absorbed as to 
forget all about his part. I was surprised, too, when 
it appeared that the Conservative paper which attacked 
the Pastor for his conversion to Radicalism was none 
other than our own Globe; and the thrill which passed 
through the house when Rebecca West contemptuously 
tore it across and flung it down, far exceeded that 
which Mrs. Ebbsmith sends nightly through the Gar- 
rick audiences. Then I was heavily taken aback by 
Mortensgard. He, in his determination to be modern 
and original, had entrusted the making-up of his face 
to an ultra-Impressionist painter who had recklessly 
abused his opportunity. Kroll, too, had a frankly in- 
credible wig, and a costume of which every detail was 
a mistake. We know Kroll perfectly well in this coun- 
try: he 1s one out of many instances of that essential 
and consequently universal knowledge of mankind which 
enables Ibsen to make his pictures of social and politi- 
cal life m outlandish little Norwegian parishes instantly 
recognizable in London and Chicago (where Mr. Beer- 
bohm Tree, by the way, has just made a remarkable 
sensation with “ An Enemy of the People”). For say- 
ing this I may be asked whether I am aware that many 
of our critical authorities have pointed out how ab- 
surdly irrelevant the petty parochial squabblings which 
stand for public life in Ibsen’s prose comedies are to 
the complex greatness of public affairs in our huge 
cities. I reply that Iam. And if I am further pressed 
to declare straightforwardly whether I mean to dis- 
parage these authorities, I reply, pointedly, that I do. 
I affirm that such criticisms are written by men who 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 57 


know as much of political life as I know of navigation. 
Any person who has helped to “nurse ” an English 
constituency, local or parliamentary, and organized 
the election from the inside, or served for a year on a 
vestry, or attempted to set on foot a movement for 
broadening the religious and social views of an English 
village, will not only vouch for it that “ The League 
of Youth,” “An Enemy of the People,” and “ Ros- 
mersholm,” are as true to English as they can possibly 
be to Norwegian society, but will probably offer to sup- 
ply from his own acquaintances originals for all the 
public characters in these plays. 

I took exception, then, to Kroll, because I know 
Kroll by sight perfectly well (was he not for a long 
time chairman of the London School Board?); and I 
am certain he would die sooner than pay a visit to the 
rector in a coat and trousers which would make a 
superannuated coffee-stall keeper feel apologetic, and 
with his haircutting and shampooing considerably more 
than three months overdue. 

I take a further exception which goes a good deal 
deeper than this. Mdlle. Marthe Mellot, the clever 
actress who appeared as Rebecca West, Pelléas, and 
Kaia, played Rebecca in the manner of Sarah Bern- 
hardt, the least appropriate of all manners for the part. 
Rebecca’s passion is the cold passion of the North — 
that essentially human passion which embodies itself in 
objective purposes and interests, and in attachments 
which again embody themselves in objective purposes 
and interests on behalf of others — that fruitful, con- 
tained, governed, instinctively utilized passion which 
makes nations and individuals great, as distinguished 
from the explosive, hysterical, wasteful passion which 
makes nothing but a scene. Now in the third and 


58 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


fourth acts of “ Rosmersholm,” Mdlle. Mellot, who had 
played excellently in the first and second, suddenly let 
the part slip through her fingers by turning to the 
wrong sort of passion. Take, for example, the situa- 
tion in the third act. Rosmer, who has hitherto be- 
lieved that his wife was mad when she committed suicide, 
is now convinced (by Mortensgard) that she did it be- 
cause he transferred his affection to Rebecca West. 
Rebecca, seeing that Rosmer will be utterly broken 
by his own conscience if he is left to believe that he 
is almost a murderer, confesses that it was she who 
drove the unfortunate wife to suicide by telling her 
certain lies. The deliberate character of this self- 
sacrifice is carefully marked by Ibsen both in Rebecca’s 
cold rebuke to Kroll’s attempt to improve the occasion 
by a gaol chaplain’s homily, and in the scene with 
Madame Helseth in which she calmly arranges for her 
departure after the men have left her in horror. It 
was here that Mdlle. Mellot yielded to the temptation 
to have a tearing finish in the Bernhardt style. ‘The 
confession became the mere hysterical incontinence of 
a guilty and worthless woman; the scene with Madame 
Helseth had to be spiced with gasps and sobs and 
clutehes; and the curtain fell on applause that be- 
longed not to “ Rosmersholm,” but to “ Froufrou.” 
Rebecca West, therefore, still remains to be created in 
England. Her vicissitudes have already been curious 
enough to the student of acting. Miss Farr, the first 
to attempt the part here, played it as the New Woman, 
fascinated by Rebecca’s unscrupulousness, asking 
amazed interviewers why such a useless Old Woman 
as Mrs. Rosmer should not have been cleared out of 
Rosmer’s way into the millrace, and generally com- 
bining an admirable clearness as to the logic of the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 59 


situation with an exasperating insensibility to the 
gravity, or even the reality, of the issues. ‘The result 
was that the point which Mdlle. Mellot has just missed 
was hit by Miss Farr, who, in spite of failures in whole 
sections of the play through want of faith in Rebecca’s 
final phase of development, and in various details 
through the awkwardness of a somewhat amateurish 
attempt to find a new stage method for a new style of 
play, yet succeeded on the whole in leaving an impres- 
sion of at least one side of Rebecca — and that the 
side which was then strangest — which has not been 
obliterated by any subsequent performance. A second 
attempt was made by Miss Elizabeth Robins; and from 
this a great deal was expected, Miss Robins having 
been remarkably successful in “ The Master Builder ” 
as Hilda Wangel, who is clearly the earlier Rebecca 
West of the “ free fearless will.” But that devastating 
stage pathos which is Miss Robins’s most formidable 
professional specialty, and which made her so heart- 
rending in “ Alan’s Wife,” and so touching as Agnes 
in “ Brand,” suddenly rose in “ Rosmersholm” and 
submerged Rebecca in an ocean of grief. So that op- 
portunity, too, was lost; and we still wait the perfect 
Rebecca, leaving Miss Farr with the honors of having 
at least done most to make us curious about her. 

The performance of Maceterlinck’s “ Pelléas and 
Mélisande,” in which Mdlle. Mellot, who was altogether 
charming as Pelléas, brought down the house in the 
Rapunzel scene, settled the artistic superiority of M. 
Lugné-Poé’s company to the Comédie Frangaise. When 
I recall the last evening I spent at that institution, 
looking at its laboriously drilled upper-housemaid 
queens and flunkey heroes, and listening to the insen- 
sate, inhuman delivery by which every half Alexandrine 


60 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


is made to sound exactly like a street cry — when I 
compare this depressing experience with last Tuesday 
evening at the ThéAtre de |’GEuvre, I can hardly be- 
lieve that the same city produced the two. In the 
Comédie Francaise there is nothing but costly and 
highly organized routine, deliberately used, like the 
ceremonial of a court, to make second-rate human 
material presentable. In the Théatre de |’Qiuvre there 
is not merely the ordinary theatrical intention, but a 
vigilant artistic conscience in the diction, the stage 
action, and the stage picture, producing a true poetic 
atmosphere, and triumphing easily over shabby ap- 
pointments and ridiculous incidents. Of course, this 
is so much the worse for the Théatre de ]’Giuvre from 
the point of view of the critics who represent the 
Philistinism against which all genuinely artistic enter- 
prises are crusades. It is a stinging criticism on our 
theatre that ten years of constant playgoing in London 
seem to reduce all but the strongest men to a condition 
in which any attempt to secure in stage-work the higher 
qualities of artistic execution — qualities which have 
been familiar for thousands of years to all art students 
— appears an aberration absurd enough to justify rep- 
utable newspapers in publishing as criticism stuff 
which is mere street-boy guying. I am not here quar- 
relling with dispraise of the Théaitre de |’Qiuvre and 
M. Maeterlinck. I set the highest value on a strong 
Opposition both in art and politics; and if Herr Max 
Nordau were made critic of the Standard (for in- 
stance) I should rejoice exceedingly. But when I 
find players speaking with such skill and delicacy that 
they can deliver M. Maeterlinck’s fragile word-music 
throughout five acts without one harsh or strained 
note, and with remarkable subtlety and conviction of 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 61 


expression; and when I see these artists, simply be- 
cause their wigs are not up to Mr. Clarkson’s English 
standard, and the curtain accidentally goes up at the 
wrong time, denounced as “ amateurs” by gentlemen 
who go into obedient raptures when M. Mounet Sully 
plasters his cheeks with white and his lips with ver- 
milion, and positively howls his lines at them for a 
whole evening with a meaningless and discordant vio- 
lence which would secure his dismissal from M. Lugné- 
Poé’s company at the end of the first act, then — Well, 
what then? Shall I violate the sacredness of profes- 
sional etiquette, and confess to a foreigner that the 
distinction some of our critics make between the ama- 
teur and the expert is really a distinction between a 
rich enterprise and a poor one, and has nothing 
in the world to do with the distinction made by the 
trained senses of the critic who recognizes art directly 
through his eyes and ears, and not by its business asso- 
ciations? Never! Besides, it would not be fair: no 
man, be he ever so accomplished a critic, can effectively 
look at or listen to plays that he does not really want 
to see or hear. 

The interest taken in the performances culminated 
at that of “‘ The Master Builder ” on Wednesday. At 
first it seemed as if M. Lugné-Poé’s elaborate and com- 
pletely realized study of a self-made man breaking up, 
was going to carry all before it, a hope raised to the 
highest by the delightful boldness and youthfulness of 
Mdlle. Suzanne Despres in the earlier scenes of Hilda. 
Unfortunately, Madame Gay as Mrs. Solness was quite 
impossible: Miss Florence. St. John as Lady Macbeth 
would have been better suited. And im the second act, 
where Solness, the dominator and mesmerizer of Ka1a, 
becomes himself dominated and mesmerized by the im- 


62 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


pulsive, irresponsible, abounding youth and force of 
Hilda, Mdlle. Despres lost ground, and actually began 
to play Kaia — Kaia prettily mutinous, perhaps, but 
still Kaia. The last act, with a subjugated Hilda, and 
a Mrs. Solness, who was visibly struggling with a nat- 
ural propensity to cheerful common sense, all but 
failed; and it was perhaps just as well that an offensive 
Frenchman in the pit circle, by attempting to guy 
Mdlle. Despres, provoked a sympathetic demonstration 
from the decent members of the audience at the fall of 
the curtain. Probably he had been reading the Eng- 
lish papers. 

Comparing the performance with those which we 
have achieved in England, it must be admitted that 
neither Mr. Waring nor Mr. Waller were in a position 
to play Solness as M. Lugné-Poé played him. They 
would never have got another engagement in genteel 
comedy if they had worn those vulgar trousers, painted 
that red eruption on their faces, and given life to that 
portrait which, in every stroke, from its domineering 
energy, talent, and covetousness, to its half-witted 
egotism and crazy philandering sentiment, is so amaz- 
ingly true to life. Mr. Waring and Mr. Waller failed 
because they were under the spell of Ibsen’s fame as 
a dramatic magician, and grasped at his poetic treat- 
ment of the man instead of at the man himself. L. 
Lugné-Poé succeeded because he recognized Solness as 
a person he had met a dozen times in ordinary life, and 
just reddened his nose and played him without pre- 
occupation. 

With Hilda it was a different matter. Except for 
the first five minutes, in which she was so bright and 
girlish, Mdlle. Despres could not touch Miss Robins 
as Hilda Wangel. Whether Miss Robins would know 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS _ 638 


Hilda if she met her in the street, any more than Mr. 
Waring would know Solness, I doubt; but Miss Robins 
was Hilda; and it is an essential part of Hilda that 
she does not realize her own humanity, much less that 
of the poor wretch whom she destroys, or the woman 
whom she widows both before and after his actual 
bodily death. This merciless insensibility, which gives 
such appalling force to youth, and which, when com- 
bined with vivid imagination, high brain power, and 
personal fascination, makes the young person in search 
of the “ frightfully thrillimg ”’ more dangerous than a 
lion in the path, was presented by Miss Robins with 
such reality that she made “The Master Builder ” 
seem almost a one-part play. It was a great achieve- 
ment, the danger of which was realized here for the first 
time, perhaps, on Wednesday last, when Mdlle. Despres 
failed to hold the house at the critical moment. Had 
there been the most trifling bereavement in the part 
to call forth the tear-deluge which swamped Rebecca 
and Mrs. Lessingham, Heaven only knows what would 
have happened to Miss Robins’s Hilda. Happily the 
part is grief-proof; and a Hilda who can even ap- 
proach Miss Robins has not yet been seen in London. 

Many thanks to the Independent Theatre for its 
share in bringing about the visit of the Théatre de 
PQfuvre to this country. Mr. Grein could have ren- 
dered no better service to English art. 


64 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


AT THE THEATRES 


Vanity Fair: a caricature. By G. W. Godfrey. Court 
Theatre, 27 April, 1895. 

The Passport. By B. C. Stephenson and W. Yardley. 
Terry’s Theatre, 25 April, 1895. 

A Human Sport: a drama in one act. By Austin 
Fryers. Globe Theatre, 1 May, 1895. 


N the whole, I am inclined to congratulate Mr. 
Godfrey on Mrs. John Wood, rather than Mrs. 


John Wood on Mr. Godfrey, in the matter of 
“Vanity Fair.”” Mrs. John Wood is herself a char- 
acter; and by providing her with some new dialogue 
Mr. Godfrey has given himself an air of creation; but 
I doubt if the other parts can be said to bear him cut 
on this point. When I saw the piece, on the third 
night, Mr. Arthur Cecil was still so unequal to the 
mere taskwork of remembering long strings of sen- 
tences which were about as characteristic and human 
as the instructions on the back of a telegram form, 
that he had to be spoon-fed by the prompter all the 
evening. Mr. Anson as Bill Feltoe, the blackmailer, 
had a part which was certainly memorable in the sense 
that he could preserve the continuity of his ideas; but 
it did not go beyond that. The play, as a drama, is 
nothing. As an entertainment “ written round ” Mrs. 
John Wood, it is a success. But it also pretends to be 
“Vanity Fair,” a picture of society. Mr. Godfrey 
guards himself by calling it a caricature; but he none 
the less presents it as a morality, a satire, a sermon! 
And here he appeals to the love of the public for edi- 
fication. Dickens’ group of cronies at the Maypole 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 65 


Inn, with their cry of “Go on improvin’ of us, John- 
nie,” exactly typifies the playgoing public in England. 
When an English playgoer is not by temperament, if 
not by actual practice, nine-tenths a chapel-goer, he 
is generally ten-tenths a blackguard; and so, if you 
cannot produce a genuine drama, and conquer him 
legitimately in that way, you must either be licentious 
at the cost of your respectability, or else moral and 
idealistic. Mr. Godfrey, running short, for the moment, 
of character and drama, of course chose the respectable 
alternative, and resorted to idealism. He moralizes on 
fine lady spectators at murder trials, on matrimonial 
scandals and high life, on Christianity conquering 
Africa with a maxim gun, and on the prevarications of 
the Treasury Bench. As further evidence of the cor- 
ruption of society, he instances the interest taken by 
it in eminent explorers, in Buffalo Bill, and in foreign 
violinists, the inference being, as I understand it, that 
to invite Mr. Stanley to dine, or Herr Joachim to play 
a partita by Bach, is a proceeding as fraught with de- 
generate heartlessness as to show your “horror” of 
a crime by rushing down to the court to gloat over 
the trial, or to give a gentleman who pays your wife’s 
bills the right to call you to account for being seen in 
her company. Mr. Godfrey’s explanation of all this 
depravity is simple. It is the work of the New Woman 
and of the Problem Play. 

You are now in a position to appreciate the scene at 
the beginning of the third act, where Mr. Arthur Cecil, 
as the gently cynical Thackerayan observer of “ Vanity 
Fair” receives, with the assistance of the prompter, 
the wondering questions of Miss Nancy Noel as to 
whether the relations between young men and young 
women ever really were as they are represented in the 


66 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


novels of Sir Walter Scott. To which I regret to say, 
Mr. Cecil does not hesitate to reply in the affirmative, 
without mentioning that no change that has taken 
place in this century has been more obviously a change 
for the better than the changes in the relations be- 
tween men and women. “ Good night, little girl,” he 
adds with unction, after a brief reference to his guide, 
philosopher, and friend in the prompter’s box. “ Trust 
to the teachings of your own pure heart. God bless 
you!” 

Mr. Godfrey must excuse me; but that sort of social 
philosophy is not good enough for me. It does not 
matter, perhaps, because I am far from attributing 
to the claptrap play the devastating social influence 
he apparently attaches to the problem play (which I 
am getting rather anxious to sce, by the way). But 
I must at least declare my belief that Mr. Godfrey will 
never succeed as a critic of society, by merely jumbling 
together all the splenetic commonplaces that sound 
effective to him, and tacking on an Adelphi moral. 
In order to make a stage drawing-room a microcosin 
of Vanity Fair, you may, I grant, mix your sets to 
any extent you please; but you necd not therefore pro- 
duce an impression that the sort of man that never 
reads a serious book or ventures above burlesque and 
farcical comedy at the theatre, has been led into his 
habit of not paying his bills, and of winking at his 
wife’s relations with useful acquaintances, by “ The 
Heavenly Twins” and Ibsen’s plays. I do not say 
that Mr. Godfrey has produced such impressions inten- 
tionally: my quarrel with him is, that he has begun 
to criticize life without first arranging his ideas. The 
result is, that it is impossible for the most credulous 
person to believe in Mrs. Brabazon-Tegg’s Grosvenor 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 67 


Square reception even to the extent of recognizing it 
as a caricature. It is not that the real thing is more 
respectable, or that the most extravagant bits (the 
scene with the sham millionaire, for instance) are the 
least lifelike; quite the contrary. But a drawing-room 
is not hike Margate Sands for all that; however loose 
the selection of guests, there is enough logic in it to 
keep the music, bad though it may be, in one predomi- 
nant key. It requires a very nice knowledge of what 
is reasonable to be safely outrageous in society of any 
grade; and this knowledge is as essential to the drama- 
tist depicting society on the stage, as to the diner out 
who wishes to be allowed the privilege of unconven- 
tionality. In putting the drawing-room on the stage, 
Mr. Godfrey’s master is obviously Mr. Oscar Wilde. 
Now Mr. Wilde has written scenes in which there is 
hardly a speech which could coneeivably be addressed 
by one real person at a real at-home to another; but 
the deflection from common sense is so subtle that it is 
evidently produced as a tuner tunes a piano; that is, 
he first tunes a fifth perfectly, and then flattens it a 
shade. If he could not tune the perfect fifth he could 
not produce the practicable one. This condition is 
imposed on the sociological humorist also. For in- 
stance, Don Quixote’s irresistibly laughable address to 
the galley slaves, like the rest of his nonsense, is so 
close to the verge of good sense that thickwitted peo- 
ple, and even some clever ones, take the Don for a man 
of exceptionally sound understanding. None the less 
he is a hopeless lunatic, the sound understanding which 
he skirts so funnily being that of Cervantes. Mr. God- 
frey fails to produce the same effect because he tries 
to say the absurd thing without precisely knowing the 
sensible thing, with the result that, though he makes 


68 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


epigrams most industriously, he never tickles the audi- 
ence except by strokes of pure fun, such as Mrs. Bra- 
bazon-Tegg’s “ Don’t disturb my maid: she’s upstairs 
doing my hair.”” There are passages which are effective 
because they give voice to grievances or allude to abuses 
upon which the audience feels, or feels obliged to pre- 
tend to feel, highly indignant; but this is not art or 
drama; the effect would be the same if the point were 
made on a political platform: indeed, it would be better 
there. For example, in Mrs. Brabazon-Tegg’s dream 
of her trial for bigamy, she is made to complain of the 
practice of eminent counsel accepting retainers in more 
cases than they can possibly attend to. The complaint 
would be more effective at an ordinary public meeting, 
because the trial represented on the stage is precisely 
the sort of one from which no counsel would dream of 
absenting himself. Such effect, then, as Mrs. Brabazon- 
Tegg’s speech from the dock actually does produce is 
due, not to the author’s knowledge of his subject, but 
to the extraordinary spontancity and conviction with 
which Mrs. John Wood delivers herself. 

There is one point on which I am unable to say 
whether Mr. Godfrey was satirical or sincere. When 
Mrs. Brabazon-Tegg’s conscience is awakened she does 
what most rich people do under similar circumstances: 
that is to say, the most mischievous thing possible. 
She begins to scatter hundred-pound checks in con- 
science-money to various charities. Whether Mr. God- 
frey approves of this proceeding I do not know; but 
he at any rate conquered my respect by remorselessly 
making his woman of fashion presently reduce all the 
checks to five pounds and re-plunge into fashionable 
life not a whit the better for her hard experience. 
This seems to indicate that Mr. Godfrey has that cour- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 69 


age of his profession in which most of our dramatists 
are shamelessly wanting. For its sake he may very 
well be forgiven his random satire, and even — on 
condition that he undertakes not to do it again — 
the insufferable conversations of Mr. Arthur Cecil and 
Miss Granville. 

“The Passport,” at Terry’s, is an amusing piece, 
with thirteen parts, of which no less than eight are very 
well acted. I was not surprised at this, except in the 
case of Miss Gertrude Kingston, who, when I last saw 
her, was a clever lady with a certain virtuosity in the 
art of dress, and made of metal hard enough to take 
a fine edge, but still not then a skilled actress, though 
the critics had instinctively recognized her as a person 
to whom it was best to be civil, perhaps because she so 
suggested that terrible person, the lady who has walked 
straight from her drawing-room on to the stage. Most 
of that is gone now, except what was worth keeping in 
it. Miss Kingston’s utterance and movements are ac- 
quiring a definite artistic character; and the circula- 
tion of feeling, which is more important to the stage 
artist than the circulation of the blood, seems to be 
establishing itself in spite of the refractory nature of 
the conducting medium; whilst her cleverness is still 
conspicuous, and her dresses make me feel more keenly 
than ever that I have left one corner of critical journal- 
ism unconquered; to wit, the fashion article. In short, 
Miss Kingston confronted me in “ The Passport ” as a 
rising actress, holding my interest from her entrance 
to her final exit, and indeed determining the success 
of the play, which, without her, might have broken down 
badly in the second and third acts, hampered as they 
are with the stuff about Bob, Algy, and Violet which 
is neither sensible, amusing, nor credible. The main 


70 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


thread of the story is presented by a very powerful 
combination of artists: Mr. Yorke Stephens, Mr. 
Maltby, Mr. Giddens, Mr. Mackay, Miss Gertrude 
Kingston, Miss Cicely Richards, and Miss Fanny Cole- 
man. Their parts are all funny; and some of them 
are individual and interesting, notably the exasperating 
but fascinating young widow with the impossible mem- 
ory, and the perfectly normal respectable maid, an ex- 
cellent character, played admirably by Miss Cicely 
Richards. Mr. Yorke Stephens is a little under-parted: 
after the first act, which he carries off with all the 
debonair grace and smartness of style which distin- 
guish him, he takes the part a little too easily. Even 
a widower could not be so completely unembarrassed 
on his wedding-day; and however obvious it may be 
that the misunderstandings created by the widow can 
be explained away, still, whilst they last, they need the 
assistance of a little alarm on the part of the bride- 
groom. As to the play, it 1s not a mere farcical im- 
broglio in which neither the figures who work the puzzle 
nor the places in which they work it have any real 
individuality: the scenes and circumstances, both in 
the frontier railway station and in the London house, 
are fully imagined and realized. The value and, alas! 
the rarity of this is shown by the comparative freshness 
and interest of the action, and the genial indulgence 
with which the audience accepts the complications of 
the last two acts, which are, it must be confessed, any- 
thing but ingenious, not to mention the silly episode of 
Algy, Violet, and Bob as aforesaid. 

The one-act piece, “ A Human Sport ” (in the evo- 
lutionary sense), by Mr. Austin Fryers, produced at 
the Globe Theatre at a matinée in aid of the Actors’ 
Benevolent Fund on Wednesday last, is hardly a drama 











DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 71 


at all: it is rather the exhibition of an incident which 
does not develop in any way. An ironmaster (I think it 
was an ironmaster) has some operation spoiled by a 
workman getting drunk at the critical moment. In or- 
der to prevent this occurring again, he resolves to take 
a step which, simple and obvious as it is, has not, as far 
as I am aware, ever been thought of before; namely, 
to take the man into partnership so as to increase his 
self-respect. With this view he invites him to tea. 
The drunkard recognizes in his master’s wife and 
mother-in-law his own deserted daughter and wife. 
Finding that respectability will involve a reunion with 
his family, he pretends to get drunk again, and 1s 
promptly kicked out as incorrigible. This unconven- 
tional and rather amusing notion has been ruined by 
Mr. Austin Fryers’ inveterate sentimentality. The 
‘human sport,” instead of behaving sportively, plunges 
into the stalest maudlin pathos over his long-lost daugh- 
ter. If Mr. Austin Fryers will cut out the daughter 
and make the sport get really drunk in order to escape 
from respectability and his wife, the play will do very 
well. Or if he will write a temptation scene round the 
decanter of brandy, and make the wife rush in and 
struggle with her husband for the glass until the con- 
test is decided in her favor by the sound of their daugh- 
ter’s voice singing a hymn in the next room, the whole 
ending with the partnership and domestic bliss, that will 
be equally satisfactory. But I implore Mr. Austin 
Fryers not to mix his genres. Let us have the new ideas 
in the new style, or the old tricks in the old style; but 
the new ideas combined with the old tricks in no style 
at all cannot be borne. Mr. James Welch, as the sport, 
pulled the play through by a piece of acting impressive 
enough to keep the audience believing, up to the last 


72. DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


moment, that something really interesting was immi- 
nent. If only for Mr. Welch’s sake, Mr. Austin Fryers, 
who is by no means deficient in ability, should extirpate 
that daughter, and build up the part into something 
worthy of the actor’s rare talent. 


TWO BAD PLAYS 


The Girl I Left Behind Me: a drama in four acts. By 
Franklin Fyles aud David Belasco. Adelphi Theatre, 
13 April, 1895. 

Delia Harding. By Victorien Sardou. Adapted by 
J. Comyns Carr. Comedy Theatre, 17 April, 1895. 


first visit to the Adelphi Theatre. My frequent 

allusions to Adelphi melodrama were all founded 
on a knowledge so perfect that there was no need to 
verify it experimentally; and now that the experiment 
has been imposed on me in the course of my profes- 
sional duty, it has confirmed my deductions to the 
minutest particular. 

Should any one rush to the conclusion hereupon that 
my attitude towards the Adelphi Theatre is that of a 
superior person, he will be quite right. It is precisely 
because I am able to visit all theatres as a superior 
person that I am entrusted with my present critical 
function. As a superior person, then, I hold Adelphi 
melodrama in high consideration. A really good 
Adelphi melodrama is of first-rate literary importance, 
because it only needs elaboration to become a master- 
piece. Mohieére’s “ Festin de Pierre”? and Mozart’s 


| AST Saturday was made memorable to me by my 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 73 


“Don Juan ” are elaborations of “ Punch and Judy,” 
just as “ Hamlet,” “ Faust,” and “ Peer Gynt” are 
elaborations of popular stories. Unfortunately, a 
really good Adelphi melodrama is very hard to get. 
It should be a simple and sincere drama of action and 
feeling, kept well within that vast tract of passion and 
motive which is common to the philosopher and the 
laborer, relieved by plenty of fun, and depending for 
variety of human character, not on the high comedy 
idiosyncrasies which individualize people in spite of the 
closest similarity of age, sex, and circumstances, but on 
broad contrasts between types of youth and age, sym- 
pathy and selfishness, the masculine and the feminine, 
the serious and the frivolous, the sublime and the 
ridiculous, and so on. ‘The whole character of the 
piece must be allegorical, idealistic, full of generaliza- 
tions and moral lessons; and it must represent conduct 
as producing swiftly and certainly on the individual the 
results which in actual life it only produces on the race 
in the course of many centuries. All of which, obvi- 
ously, requires for its accomplishment rather greater 
heads and surer hands than we commonly find in the 
service of the playhouse. 

The latest Adelphi melodrama, “The Girl I Left 
Behind Me,” is a very bad one. ‘The only stroke in it 
that comes home is at the close of the second act, where 
the heroine sends her soldier Jover, who has been ac- 
cused of cowardice, off on a dangerous duty, and tells 
him that she loves him. The authors, I need hardly 
say, did not invent this situation, nor did they freshen 
it or add anything to it; but they at least brought it 
off without bungling it, and so saved the piece from the 
hostility of that sceptical spirit which is now growing 
among first-night audiences in a very marked degree. 


74 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


This is an inevitable reaction against the artificialities, 
insincerities, and impossibilities which form about three- 
fourths of the stock-in-trade of those playwrights who 
seek safety and success in the assumption that it 1s 
impossible to underrate the taste and intelligence of the 
British public. But there is a profound error in this 
policy. It is true that the public consists largely of 
people who are incapable of fully appreciating the best 
sort of artistic work. It is even true that in every 
audience, especially on first nights, there is an appreci- 
able number of persons whose condition is such that — 
to turn Tennyson’s shallow claptrap into a terrible 
truth — they needs must hate the highest when they see 
it. But why should we credit these unhappy persons 
with that attribute of the highest character, the power 
of liking what pleases them, of believing in it, of stand- 
ing by those who give it to them? For the most part 
they never enjoy anything; they are always craving 
for stimulants, whereas the essence of art is recreation ; 
let their flatterer slip, as he always does sooner or 
later, and they are at his throat mercilessly before he 
can recover himself. But if you speak in their hearing 
as the great men speak (which is easy enough if you 
happen to be a great man), then you will find that their 
specialty is self-torture, and that they are always 
hankering, in spite of themselves, after their own bore- 
dom and bewilderment, driven, probably, by some sort 
of uneasy hope that Ibsen or Wagner or some other 
gigantic bore may exorcise the devils which rend them. 
The fact is, there is nothing the public despises so much 
as an attempt to please it. Torment is its natural ele- 
ment: it is only the saint who has any capacity for 
happiness. There is no greater mistake in theology 
than to suppose that it is necessary to lock people into 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 75 


hell or out of heaven. You might as well suppose that 
it is necessary to lock a professional tramp into a pub- 
lic-house or out of a Monday popular concert, on the 
ground that the concert is the better and cheaper 
place of the two. The artist’s rule must be Cromwell’s: 
“Not what they want, but what is good for them.” 
That rule, carried out in a kindly and sociable way, 
is the secret to success in the long run at the theatre 
as elsewhere. 

My strong propensity for preaching is, I fear, lead- 
ing me to deal with “ The Girl I Left Behind Me” in 
rather too abstract a fashion. But it is only in its 
abstract bearings that the play provides interesting 
material to the critic. Instead of being natural and 
sincere, it is artificial and sanctimonious. The lan- 
guage, which should be vividly vernacular, is ineptly 
literary. Its fun runs too much on the underclothing 
of the ladies, which they tear up to make bandages for 
wounds, or offer, without detachment, to be used by 
gentlemen at a loss for towels after washing. The char- 
acters, instead of being consistent and typical, are 
patched and rickety, the author’s grip constantly slip- 
ping from them. The villam and coward of the piece 
punches the hero’s head with pluck and promptitude in 
the first act, lapses into abject poltroonery in the 
second, and in the third faces without concern a mili- 
tary emergency which drives all the rest into hysterical 
desperation. The hero, assaulted as aforesaid, inglori- 
ously brings down the curtain with a stage villain’s 
retort, “‘ You shall rrepent — thiss — bblow,” and sub- 
sequently becomes the sport of circumstances, which 
turn out happily for him without much aid from him- 
self. As to Kennion, the sympathetic general, I can- 
not believe that even in the army so incapable a man 


76 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


could rise to high command. It is, of course, usual on 
the stage for all army commanders to be superseded at 
critical moments by their daughters; but still there is 
no good reason why they should not have moments of 
efficiency when nothing but routine business is in hand. 
Private Jones, who 1s cordially received by his officer 
when he describes, with an air of conscious merit, how 
he has just run away on being actually fired at by the 
enemy, and who calmly quits his post as sentry (at a 
stockade which may be surprised at any moment) to 
sit down beside his sleeping lady love, and is supported 
in that proceeding by the general against a not un- 
natural remonstrance from his lieutenant — Private 
Jones is certainly consistent; but what he is con- 
sistent with is not himself — for as an individual human 
being he has no eredible existence — but the trained 
incapacity of the Adelphi audience to understand true 
military valor. Instead of being, as he should be in 
a popular melodrama, a typically good soldier, he is a 
mere folly of the ignorant civil imagination. There is 
also a medical man, an army surgeon, who makes love 
to a girl of sixteen by way of comic relief. He re- 
laxed the tension of the third act very happily by a 
slight but astonishingly effective alteration of a single 
syllable in the author’s text. In the agony of the 
siege, when all hope was gone, he sat down with heroic 
calinness to write two documents: one a prescription 
which there was no apparent means of getting com- 
pounded, and the other a farewell —I did not quite 
catch to whom — probably to his mother. ‘The last 
touching words of this communication were prefaced by 
the author with the sentence, “ I will add a postscript.” 
The doctor, however, adroitly substituted, “* I will add 
a post-card,” and sent the audience, just at the mo- 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 77 


ment when their feelings could bear no further harrow- 
ing, into shrieks of refreshing laughter. 

The third act, by the way, is an adaptation of the 
Relief of Lucknow, which, as a dramatic situation, 1s 
so strong and familiar that it is hardly possible to spoil 
it, though the authors have done their best. ‘The main 
difficulty is the foreknowledge of the hopelessly sophis- 
ticated audience that Mr. Terriss will rush in at the 
last moment, sword in hand, and rescue everybody. 
The authors’ business was to carry us on from incident 
to incident so convincingly and interestingly as to pre- 
occupy us with the illusion of the situation sufficiently 
to put Mr. Terriss out of our heads. Messrs. Fyles 
and Belasco have not been equal to this. They have 
lamely staved off Mr. Terriss for the necessary time 
by a flabbily commonplace treatment of the question of 
killing the women to save them from the Indians, and 
by bringing in the Indian chief’s daughter to die in the 
stockade at the instant when the sound of her voice 
would have won quarter for the garrison. This is ill 
contrived, and only passes because the explanation is 
deferred until the last act, which is so transcendently 
imbecile that an absurdity more or less does not matier. 
As to the heroine, who had to kneel in the middle of the 
stage and rave her way through the burial service whilst 
her father, the general, hopped about, pulling horrible 
faces, and trying to make up his mind to shoot her, she 
was so completely out of the question from any rational 
human point of view, that I think the effort to imper- 
sonate her temporarily unhinged Miss Millward’s rea- 
son; for when the rescue came, and she had to wave 
the American flag, instead of expressing her feelings 
naturally, she all but impaled the general on it in a 
frightful manner. Miss Millward and Mr. Terriss and 


78 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the rest of the company must bear with my irreverent 
way of describing the performance. I quite appreciate 
their skill, which 1s perhaps more indispensable for non- 
sense of this kind than for plays good enough to be 
comparatively ‘‘ actor-proof ”; but the better the skill, 
the more annoying it is to see it nine-tenths wasted. 
All the same, the evening was not a dull one. The 
play is not good drama, nor good melodrama; but it 
is tolerable pastime. I have spun out my criticism of 
it in order to leave as little room as possible for another 
play which was not tolerable even as pastime. When 
Mr. Comyns Carr came before the curtain at the end of 
Sardou’s * Delia Harding ”’ at the Comedy Theatre on 
Wednesday, I found myself mstinctively repeating the 
words of Sam Weller, “‘ You rayther want somebody 
to look arter you, sir, ven your judgment goes out a 
wisitin’.” ‘* Delia Harding ” is the worst play I ever 
saw. Taking it as a work bearing the same relation to 
the tastes of the upper middle class as the Adelphi 
drama to those of the lower middle class, I declare 
enthusiastically in favor of the Adelphi. Sardou’s 
plan of playwriting is first to invent the action of his 
piece, and then to carefully keep it off the stage and 
have it announced merely by letters and telegrams. 
The people open the letters and read them, whether they 
are addressed to them or not; and then they talk either 
about what the letters announce as having occurred 
already or about what they intend to do to-morrow in 
consequence of receiving them. When the news is not 
brought by post, the characters are pressed into the 
service. ‘ Delia Harding,’ for instance, consists 
largely of the fashionable intelligence in Bellagio. As 
thus: ‘Stanley French arrived in Bellagio this morn- 
ing,” “ Mr. Harding will arrive in Bellagio to-morrow 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 79 


afternoon,” ‘‘ Miss Harding lives in that villa on the 
lake,” “‘ Sir Christopher Carstairs will remain here for 
another month at least,” “This is my brother, Sir 
Arthur Studley,” “‘ Janet: we shall pack up and leave 
to-morrow morning,” etc., etc., the person addressed 
invariably echoing with subdued horror, “ This morn- 
ing!” * To-morrow afternoon! ” “In that villa!” and 
so on. The whole business was so stale, so obviously 
factitious, so barrenly inept, that at last the gallery 
broke out into open derision, almost as if they were 
listening to a particularly touching and delicate pas- 
sage in a really good play. As for me, I felt ashamed 
and remorseful. The time has now come for pity rather 
than vengeance on the poor old “ well-made play.” 
Fifteen years ago I was almost alone in my contempt 
for these clumsy booby traps. Nowadays an actor can- 
not open a letter or toss off somebody else’s glass of 
poison without having to face a brutal outburst of jeer- 
ing. At the Comedy on Thursday, some low fellow 
shouted out ‘ Rats!” in the middle of the second act. 
Why was he not removed by the police? Such a step 
would be highly popular in the gallery: ninety-nine 
out of every hundred people in it are incommoded by 
rowdyism, and are only too glad to be protected from 
neighbors who cannot express their disapproval or ap- 
proval decently. At political meetings the public is not 
only allowed but expected to exercise a freedom of com- 
ment and interruption which no sane person would pro- 
pose to tolerate in a theatre; but of late first nights 
have been disturbed by interruptions which would ex- 
pose the interrupter to serious risk of a remarkably 
summary expulsion from a political meeting. Besides, 
public speakers are helped by interruptions: they de- 
hiberately provoke them for the sake of an effective 


80 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


retort. But the actor is helpless: he must not say a 
word that is not set down for him; and the nature of 
his work makes it terribly easy for any half-drunk fool 
to cruelly disconcert and annoy him. Even the ap- 
plause on first nights, the receptions and exit demon- 
strations, are silly enough: the rule ought to be silence 
whilst the curtain is up and as much noise as you 
please when it is down. But that is a matter of taste 
and custom rather than of police. Where the police 
ought to come in without mercy is in the case of offen- 
sive and disorderly remarks or exclamations shouted 
at the stage during the performance. One or two well 
chosen examples pursued to the police court would 
settle the matter for the next ten years. 

The acting of “ Deha Harding ” calls for no special 
notice. Mr. Mackintosh, who appeared as Stanley 
French, was warmly received. His acting was not lack- 
ing in force; but his gesture and facial expression were 
grotesque and caricatured, though there was nothing 
in the part to give occasion for such extravagani 
handhng. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 81 


SPANISH TRAGEDY AND ENGLISH 
FARCE 


Mariana and The Son of Don Juan. By José Eche- 
garay. Translated from the Spanish by James 
Graham. Two volumes of the Cameo Series. Lon- 
don: Fisher Unwin. 1895. 


hardy knight who discovered, as most men do in 

their middle age, that “ to rob and pill is a good 
life.’ When Mr. Fisher Unwin sent me “ The Son of 
Don Juan ” I began at the end, as my custom is (other- 
wise I seldom reach the end at all), and found the 
following: 


P SHERE is somewhere in Froissart a record of a 


“Lazarus (Speaking like a child, and with the face of an 
idiot): ‘ Mother — the sun — the sun; give me the sun. 
For God’s sake — for God’s sake —for God’s sake, 


mother, give me the sun.’ ” 


To a person familiar with Ibsen’s “‘ Ghosts,” this was 
sufficient to establish a warm interest in an author 
who, like Froissart’s knight, takes his goods so boldly 
where he finds them. I had never heard of José Eche- 
garay before; but I soon learnt, from Mr. Graham’s 
sketch of his life, that he is a celebrated Spanish 
dramatist, and that it will be decorous for me in 
future to pretend to know all about him. To tell the 
truth, I wish I had some other authority than Mr. 
Graham to consult; for though I have no excuse for 
questioning the entire trustworthiness of the little 
memoir he has prefixed to “The Son of Don Juan,” 
I can hardly bring myself to believe more than half of 


82 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


it. No doubt Echegaray is a greater physicist than 
Newton, and a greater mathematician than De Morgan 
and Professor Karl Pearson rolled into one. Perhaps 
he really did walk out of a drawing-room ignorant of 
a word of German, and presently return a master of 
that intractable tongue, and intimate with the secrets 
of Hegel and all the other philosophers of the Father- 
land. And why should there be any difficulty in believ- 
ing in that discussion on fencing, which again made 
him leave the room, only to come back so consummate 
a swordsman that no professional in Madrid could as 
much as keep hold of his foil when confronted with him? 
And yet, somehow, I don’t believe it. It is all the fault 
of that unfortunate musical criticism which I practised 
so long and assiduously. A musical critic gets supplied 
gratuitously with biographies of distinguished artists, 
compiled by musical agents or other experts in fiction, 
and circulated to the press and to persons with whom 
the artist desires to do business. These biographies 
seldom appear among the books of reference in first- 
rate libraries. They all contain at least two anecdotes, 
one to illustrate the miraculous powers of their hero’s 
brain, and another to exhibit his courage and dexterity 
In personal combat. Mund, I do not say these anec- 
dotes are untrue; I simply confess apologetically that 
I never find myself able to believe them. When I re- 
ceive from an agent or from a bookseller a life of 
Sarasate or Mr. Edison, or any other celebrated per- 
son, I try to believe as much of it as I can; and the 
breakdown of my faith must not be taken as a break- 
down of the celebrated person’s credit. Besides, after 
all, Mr. Grahain’s memoir of Echegaray may not mean 
anything so very staggering. There is something mo- 
mentous at first sight in the statement that “ the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS _ 83 


first three years of the dramatist’s life were passed in 
the capital of Spain”; but now I come to think of it, 
the first three years of my life (and more) were passed 
in the capital of Ireland, which was a much harder trial. 
Again, the attention he gave to “ the infinitesimal cal- 
culus, theoretical and applied mechanics, hydrostatics, 
curve tracing, descriptive geometry and its applica- 
tions, solid geometry, and so on into the dimmest 
heights of the science,” might have happened to many 
a university don. I remember once buying a book en- 
titled “ How to Live on Sixpence a Day,” a point on 
which at that time circumstances compelled me to be 
pressingly curious. I carried out its instructions faith- 
fully for a whole afternoon; and if ever I have an offi- 
cial biography issued, I shall certainly have it stated 
therein, in illustration of my fortitude and self-denial, 
that I lived for some time on sixpence a day. On 
the whole, I am willing to take Mr. Graham’s word for 
it that Echegaray is, apart from his capacity as a 
dramatic poet, an exceptionally able man, who, after 
a distinguished university career, turned from the aca- 
demic to the political life; attained Cabinet rank, with 
its Spanish inconveniences of proscription and flight 
at the next revolution; and in 1874, being then forty- 
two years of age, and in exile in Paris, took to writing 
plays, and found himself famous in that line by the 
time his political difficulties had settled themselves. 
As a dramatist, I find Echegaray extremely readable. 
Mr. Graham has translated two of the most famous of 
his plays into a language of his own, consisting of 
words taken from the English dictionary, and placed, 
for the most part, in an intelligible grammatical rela- 
tion to one another. [ say for the most part; for here 
and there a sentence baffles me. For example: “The 


84 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


hall is approached by two or three saloons, whether in 
front of it, whether in converging lines, but in such 
fashion that they are partly visible.’ This is a hard 
saying, which I humbly pass on to the stage manager 
in the hope that he may be able to make more out of 
it than I can. Happily, the dialogue is pellucid as 
to its meaning, even where it is least vernacular. If 
Mrs. Patrick Campbell, for instance, plays Mariana 
(and she might do worse: it would be a far wiser 
choice than Juliet), I shall, if she uses Mr. Graham’s 
translation, listen with interest to the effect on the 
audience of such a speech as “ The sickness of the jour- 
ney has not left me. I suspect that I am going to 
have a very violent megrim.” I fear it is useless to 
pretend to accept Mr. Graham’s work as a translation 
after this: it is clearly only a crib, though in some of 
the burning passages it rises to considerable force and 
eloquence. In such passages the full meaning can be 
gathered from the words alone; for most nations ex- 
press themselves alike when they are red-hot; but in 
passages of comedy the word is often nothing, and the 
manner and idiom everything, in proof whereof I will 
undertake to recast any scene from, say, “ The School 
for Seandal,” in such a manner that without the least 
alteration of its meaning it will become duller than 
an average sample of the evidence in a Bluc-book. 
Therefore, as I do not know a word of Spanish, I can 
only guess at the qualities which have eluded Mr. 
Graham’s erib. 

Echegaray is apparently of the school of Schiller, 
Victor Hugo, and Verdi— picturesque, tragie to the 
death, showing us the beautiful and the heroic strug- 
gling cither with blind destiny or with an implacable 
idealism whieh makes vengeance and jealousy points of 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS — 85 


honor. ‘“ Mariana” is a lineal descendant of “ Ruy 
Blas ” or * Don Carlos.” In “ The Son of Don Juan,” 
the modern scientific culture comes in, and replaces the 
* villain”? of the older school, the Sallustio or Ruy 
Gomez, by destiny in the shape of hereditary disease. 
In spite of the line “ Give me the sun, mother,” for 
which Echegaray acknowledges his indebtedness to 
Ibsen, his treatment of the “ Ghosts ” theme 1s perfectly 
original: there is not in it a shadow of the peculiar 
moral attitude of Ibsen. Echegaray remorselessly fixes 
all the responsibility on Don Juan (Alving), who is as 
resolutely vicious as Shelley’s Count Cenci. Ibsen, on 
the contrary, after representing Mrs. Alving as hav- 
ing for years imputed her late husband’s vices to his 
own wilful dissoluteness, brings home to her the convic- 
tion that it was really she herself and her fellow Puri- 
tans who, by stamping men and women of Alving’s 
temperament into the gutter, and imposing shame and 
disease on them as their natural heritage, had made the 
ruin into which Alving fell. Accordingly, we have those 
terrible scenes in which she desperately tries to reverse 
towards the son the conduct that was fatal to the 
father, plying Oswald with champagne and conniving 
at his intrigue with his own half-sister. There is not 
the slightest trace of this inculpation of respectability 
and virtue in “ The Son of Don Juan.” Indeed, had 
Iichegaray adapted Ibsen’s moral to the conditions of 
domestic life and public opinion in Spain, the process 
would have destroyed all that superficial resemblance 
to “ Ghosts ” which has led some critics hastily to de- 
scribe Echegaray’s play as a wholesale plagiarism. 
The fact that the doctor who is only mentioned in 
Ghosts” actually appears on the stage in “ The 
Son of Don Juan” is a point, not of resemblance, 


86 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


but of difference; whilst the fact that Mrs. Alving 
and Manders have no counterparts in the Spanish 
play, and that the dissipated father, who does not 
appear in “ Ghosts ” at all, is practically Echegaray’s 
hero, will make it plain to any one who has really com- 
prehended “ Ghosts ” that the story has been taken on 
to new ground nationally, and back to old ground 
morally. Echegaray has also created a new set of char- 
acters. Paca, the woman of Tarifa; the poor httle 
consumptive Carmen, betrothed to Lazarus (Oswald) ; 
Timoteo and Nemesio, the shattered old boon compan- 
ions of Don Juan; Dolores, the wife of Don Juan, who 
is not even twentieth cousin to Mrs. Alving: all these 
are original creations. Echegaray makes his puppets 
dance ruthlessly. He writes like a strong man to whom 
these people are all “ poor devils ” whom he pities and 
even pets, but does not respect. This again contrasts 
strongly with the Norwegian feeling. Ibsen never pre- 
sents his play to you as a romance for your entertain- 
ment: he says, in effect, ‘‘ Here is yourself and myself, 
our society, our civilization. The evil and good, the 
horror and the hope of it, are woven out of your life 
and mine.”? There is no more of that sort of conscience 
about Echegaray’s plays than there is about “ Her- 
nani,” or, for the matter of that, “ The Babes in the 
Wood.” The woman who looks at Hedda Gabler or 
Mrs. Alving may be looking at herself in a mirror; but 
the woman who looks at Mariana is looking at another 
woman, a perfectly distinct and somewhat stagey per- 
sonality. Consequently the howl of rage and dread 
that follows each stroke of Ibsen’s scalpel will not rise 
when one of our actresses pounces on Mariana: we 
shall only whimper a little because our childish curi- 
osity is not indulged in the last scene to the extent of 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 87 


letting us see whether Daniel kills Pablo and then him- 
self, or whether Pablo kills Daniel. This last scene, or 
epilogue, as it is called, is magnificently dramatic; so 
much so that if some adapter will change the name of 
the piece from “ Mariana ” to “ Daniel,” and transfer 
all the lady’s best speeches to the gentleman, some of 
our actor-managers will probably produce it as soon 
as they realize its existence — say in twenty years or 
so. Unless, indeed, the actress-manageress arrives in 
the meantime and snaps it up. 

I can best convey a notion of the style and dramatic 
method of Echegaray by a couple of quotations. In 
both of the plays just translated, a narrative by the 
principal character makes an indelible impression on 
the imagination, and comes into action with great effect 
at the Climax of the tragedy. Both narratives are 
characteristically modern in their tragi-comedy. Here 
is Mariana’s: 

“Listen. I was eight years old. It must have been 
two or three o’clock in the morning. I was sleeping in 
my crib; and I dreamt that I was giving a great many 
kisses to my doll, because it had called me *‘ mamma.’ 
The doll soon began to kiss me in return, but so fiercely 
that it caused me pain; and the doll became very 
large; and it was my mother. She was holding me in 
her arms; and I—TI was not sleeping now: it was 
no dream: I was awake. Behind my mother there was 
a man standing. It was Alvarado, who was saying, 
‘Come.? My mother said, ‘No: not without her.’ 
And he said, ‘ Devil take it, then, with her.” The rest 
was like another dream — a nightmare — anything that 
whirls you away and will not let you breathe. My 
mother dressed me as people dress lunatics or dolls, 
pulling me about, shaking me, nearly beating me. And 


88 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Alvarado was all the time hurrying her with whispers 
of ‘Quick, quick, make haste.” I have never gone 
through anything like it: trivial— ludicrous as it 
was, it was horrible. She could not get the little socks 
rightly on me; she could not manage to button my 
boots; my drawers were put on the wrong way, the 
petticoats left with the opening at the side, my dress 
half loose, though I kept saying, ‘It wants to be 
fastened: it should be fastened.’ And all the time 
Alvarado was saying, ‘ Quick, quick: make haste, make 
haste.” I was wound up in a cloak of my mother’s; 
and a hat ribbon was tied round my head so that it 
nearly choked me. Then my mother snatched me up 
in her arms; and we got into a carriage and went very 
fast. Then I heard a kiss; and I thought, ‘ My God, 
who was that for, who was that for: nobody has kissed 
me.” Ah, my own mother, my own mother! ” 

At the end of the play, Daniel, Mariana’s lover, in 
persuading her to elope, picks up her cloak, and by 
trying to wrap her in it and carry her out to the car- 
riage, reminds her of this passage in her childhood, and 
of Alvarado, whose son Daniel is. She calls in her hus- 
band, who kills her; and the two men disappear to fight 
it out to the death in the garden as the curtain falls. 

Don Juan’s narrative is an instance of the same 
dramatic device. 

“It was a grand night—a grand supper. There 
were eight of us— each with a partner. Everybody 
was drunk — even the Guadalquiver. <Aniceta went out 
on the balcony and began to cry out, ‘ Stupid, insipid, 
waterish river: drink wine for once,’ and threw a bottle 
of Manzanilla into it. Well, I was lying asleep along 
the floor, upon the carpet, close to a divan. And on 
the divan there had fallen, by one of the usual accidents, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 89 


the Tarifena — Paca the Tarifena. She was asleep; 
and in her tossings to and fro her hair had become 
loose — a huge mass; and it fell over me in silky waves 
— a great quantity, enfolding me as in a splendid black 
mantle of perfumed lace. The dawn arrived —a de- 
lightful morning, the balcony open, the East with splen- 
did curtains of mist and with little red clouds; the sky 
blue and stainless; a light more vivid kindling into 
flame the distant horizon. Slowly the crimson globe 
ascended. I opened my eyes wide; and [I saw the sun, 
I saw it from between the interlaced tresses of the 
Tarifena. It inundated me with light; and I stretched 
forth my hand instinctively to grasp it. Something of 
a new kind of love—a new desire — agitated me; 
great brightness, much azure, very broad spheres, vague 
yet burning aspirations for something very beautiful. 
For a minute I understood that there is something 
higher than the pleasures of the senses: for a minute I 
felt myself another being. I wafted a kiss to the sun, 
and angrily pulled aside the girl’s hair. One lock clung 
about my lips: it touched my palate and gave me 
nausea. I flung away the tress; I awoke the Tarifena; 
and vice dawned through the remains of the orgie, like 
the sun through the vapors of the night, its mists, and 
its fire-colored clouds.” 

I need only add that Don Juan is on the stage at 
the end of the play when the heir to his debauchery 
says, “ Give me the sun, mother.” On the whole, though 
IT am afraid some of our critics will be as nauseated as 
Don Juan was by that stray lock of the Tarifena’s 
hair, I suspect the Spaniards will compel us to admit- 
that they have produced a genius of a stamp that 
crosses frontiers, and that we shall yet see some of 
his work on our own stage. 


90 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


MR. IRVING TAKES PAREGORIC 


Bygones. By A. W. Pinero. A Story of Waterloo. 
By A. Conan Doyle. A Chapter from Don Quizote. 
By the late W. G. Wills. Lyceum Theatre, 4 May, 
1895. 


us with the fact that all attempts to sustain our 

conduct at a higher level than is natural to us 
produce violent reactions. Was there not a certain 
African divine, the Reverend Mr. Creedy, who tamed 
the barbarian within him and lived the higher life of 
the Caledonian Road for a while, only to end by “ going 
Fantee” with a vengeance? This liability to re- 
action is a serious matter for the actor — not, per- 
haps, for the actor of villains, who becomes by reaction 
the most amiable of men in private life, but certainly 
for the actor of heroes, who is occasionally to be 
found off the stage in a state of very violent reaction 
indeed. But there are some actors— not many, but 
some — who have solid private characters which stand 
like rocks in the midst of the ebb and tide of their stage 
emotions; and in their case the reaction must take 
place in their art itself. Such men, when they have to 
be unnaturally dignified on the stage, cannot relieve 
themselves by being ridiculous in private life, since the 
good sense of their private characters makes that im- 
possible to them. When they can bear it no longer, 
they must make themselves ridiculous on the stage or 
burst. No actor suffers from the tyranny of this gro- 
tesque necessity more than Mr. Irving. His career, 
ever since he became a heroic actor, has been studded 


[: was Mr. Grant Allen, I think, who familiarized 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 91 


by relapses into the most impish buffoonery. I re- 
member years ago going into the Lyceum Theatre 
under the impression that I was about to witness a 
performance of “ Richard III.” After one act of that 
tragedy, however, Mr. Irving relapsed into an imper- 
sonation of Alfred Jingle. He concealed piles of sand- 
wiches in his hat; so that when he afterwards raised it 
to introduce himself as “ Alfred Jingle, Esq., of No 
Hall, Nowhere,” a rain of ham and bread descended 
on him. He knelt on the stage on one knee and seated 
Miss Pauncefort (the spinster aunt) on the other, and 
then upset himself and her, head over heels. He beat 
a refractory horse with a bandbox; inked the glimpses 
of shirt that appeared through the holes in his coat; 
and insulted all the other characters by turning their 
coats back with the idiotic remark, “* From the country, 
sir?’ He was not acting: nothing less like the scenes 
created by Dickens could possibly have been put on the 
stage. He was simply taking his revenge on Shake- 
speare and himself for months of sustained dignity. 
Later on we had the same phenomenon repeated in his 
Robert Macaire. There was, and, I suppose, still is 
in the market a version of that little melodrama by 
Mr. Henley and the late Louis Stevenson which was 
full of literary distinction; but Mr. Irving stuck to 
the old third-class version, which gave him unlimited 
scope for absurdity. He made one or two memorable 
effects in it: a more horribly evil-looking beast of prey 
than his Macaire never crossed the stage; and I can 
recall a point or two where the feeling produced was 
terrible. But what Mr. Irving enjoyed, and obviously 
what attracted him in the business, was rushing Mr. 
Weedon Grossmith upstairs by the back of the neck, 
breaking plates on his stomach, standing on a barrel 


92 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


boyishly pretending to play the fiddle, singing a chan- 
son to an accompaniment improvised by himself on an 
old harpsichord, and, above all — for here his glee at- 
tained its climax — inadvertently pulling a large as- 
sortment of stolen handkerchiefs out of his pocket 
whilst explaining matters to the police officer, and 
clinching his account by throwing one into his hat, 
which, having no crown, allowed it to fall through to 
the floor. This alternation of the grotesque, the imp- 
ish, the farcical, with the serious and exalted, is char- 
acteristic of the nineteenth century. Goethe antici- 
pated it in his Faust and Mephistopheles, obviously 
two sides of the same character; and it was in the 
foolish travesty of “ Faust” perpetrated by Wills 
that Mr. Irving found a part in which he could be 
melodramatic actor, mocker, and buffoon all in one 
evening. Since then he has had a trying time of it. 
Becket on top of Wolsey was enough to provoke a 
graver man to go Fantee; and Lear followed Becket. 
But when King Arthur capped Lear, all of us who 
knew Mr. Irving’s constitution felt that a terrific re- 
action must be imminent. It has come in the shape of 
Don Quixote, in which he makes his own dignity ridicu- 
lous to his heart’s content. He rides a slim white horse, 
made up as Rozinante with painted hollows just as a 
face is made up; he has a set of imitation geese wag- 
gling on springs to mistake for swans; he tumbles 
about the stage with his legs in the air; and he has a 
single combat, on refreshingly indecorous provocation, 
with a pump. And he is perfectly happy. I am the 
last person in the world to object; for I, too, have 
something of that aboriginal need for an occasional 
carnival in me. When he came before the curtain at 
the end, he informed us, with transparent good faith} 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 93 


that the httle play practically covered the whole of 
Cervantes’ novel, a statement which we listened to with 
respectful stupefaction. I get into trouble often 
enough by my ignorance of authors whom every liter- 
ate person is expected to have at his fingers’ ends; 
but I believe Mr. Irving can beat me hollow in that 
respect. If I have not read Don Quixote all through, 
I have at least looked at the pictures; and I am pre- 
pared to swear that Mr. Irving never got beyond the 
second chapter. 

Any one who consults recent visitors to the Lyceum, 
or who seeks for information in the Press as to the 
merits of Mr. Conan Doyle’s “Story of Waterloo,” 
will in nineteen cases out of twenty learn that the piece 
is a trifle raised into importance by the marvellous act- 
ing of Mr. Irving as Corporal Gregory Brewster. As 
a matter of fact, the entire effect is contrived by the 
author, and is due to him alone. ‘There is absolutely 
no acting in it—~none whatever. There is a make-up 
in it, and a little cheap and simple mimicry which Mr. 
Irving does indifferently because he is neither apt nor 
observant as a mimic of doddering old men, and be- 
cause his finely cultivated voice and diction again and 
again rebel against the indignity of the Corporal’s 
squeakings and mumblings and vulgarities of pronunci- 
ation. But all the rest is an illusion produced by the 
machinery of “a good acting play,” by which is always 
meant a play that requires from the performers no 
qualifications beyond a plausible appearance and a little 
experience and address in stage business. I had better 
make this clear by explaining the process of doing with- 
out acting as exemplified by “ A Story of Waterloo,” 
in which Mr. Conan Doyle has carried the art of con- 
structing an “ acting” play to such an extreme that 


94 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


I almost suspect him of satirically revenging himself, 
as a literary man, on a profession which has such a 
dread of “literary plays.” (A “literary play,” I 
should explain, is a play that the actors have to act, 
in opposition to the “ acting play,” which acts them.) 

Before the curtain rises, you read the playbill; and 
the process commences at once with the suggestive effect 
on your imagination of “ Corporal Gregory Brewster, 
age eighty-six, a Waterloo veteran,” of ‘“‘ Nora Brew- 
ster, the corporal’s grandniece,” and of ‘“‘ Scene — 
Brewster’s lodgings.” By the time you have read that, 
your own imagination, with the author pulling the 
strings, has done half the work you afterwards give 
Mr. Irving credit for. Up goes the curtain; and the 
lodgings are before you, with the humble breakfast 
table, the cheery fire, the old man’s spectacles and Bible, 
and a medal hung up in a frame over the chimneypiece. 
Lest you should be unobservant enough to miss the sig- 
nificance of all this, Miss Annie Hughes comes in with 
a basket of butter and bacon, ostensibly to impersonate 
the grandniece, really to carefully point out all these 
things to you, and to lead up to the entry of the hero 
by preparing breakfast for him. When the background 
is sufficiently laid in by this artifice, the drawing of 
the figure commences. Mr. Fuller Mellish enters in 
the uniform of a modern artillery sergeant, with a 
breech-loading carbine. You are touched: here is 
the young soldier come to see the old — two figures 
from the Seven Ages of Man. Miss Hughes tells Mr. 
Mellish all about Corporal Gregory. She takes down 
the medal, and makes him read aloud to her the press- 
cutting pasted beside it which describes the feat for 
which the medal was given. In short, the pair work 
at the picture of the old warrior until the very dullest 


re 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 95 


dog in the audience knows what he is to see, or to 
imagine he sees, when the great moment comes. ‘Thus 
is Brewster already created, though Mr. Irving has not 
yet left his dressing-room. At last, everything being 
ready, Mr. Fuller Mellish is packed off so as not to 
divide the interest. A squeak is heard behind the 
scenes: it is the childish treble that once rang like a 
trumpet on the powder-wagon at Waterloo. Enter 
Mr. Irving, in a dirty white wig, toothless, blear-eyed, 
palsied, shaky at the knees, stooping at the shoulders, 
increditably aged and very poor, but respectable. He 
makes his way to his chair, and can only sit down, so 
stiff are his aged limbs, very slowly and creakily. ‘This 
sitting down business is not acting: the callboy could 
do it; but we are so thoroughly primed by the play- 
bill, the scene-painter, the stage-manager, Miss Hughes 
and Mr. Mellish, that we go off in enthusiastic whispers, 
“What superb acting! How wonderfully he does it!” 
The corporal cannot recognize his grandniece at first. 
When he does, he asks her questions about children — 
children who have long gone to their graves at ripe 
ages. She prepares his tea: he sups it noisily and in- 
eptly, like an infant. More whispers: “‘ How masterly 
a touch of second childhood!” He gets a bronchial 
attack and gasps for paregoric, which Miss Hughes 
administers with a spoon, whilst our faces glisten with 
tearful smiles. ‘Is there another living actor who 
could take paregoric like that?” The sun shines 
through the window: the old man would fain sit there 
and peacefully enjoy the fragrant air and life-giving 
warmth of the world’s summer, contrasting so patheti- 
cally with his own winter. He rises, more creakily than 
before, but with his faithful grandniece’s arm fondly 
supporting him. He dodders across the stage, express- 


96 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ing a hope that the flies will not be too ‘* owdacious,” 
and sits down on another chair with his joints crying 
more loudly than ever for some of the oil of youth. 
We feel that we could watch him sitting down for ever. 
Hark! a band in the street without. Soldiers pass: 
the old warhorse snorts feebly, but complains that 
bands don’t play so loud as they used to. The band 
being duly exploited for all it is worth, the Bible 
comes into play. What he likes in it are the cam- 
paigns of Joshua and the battle of Armageddon, which 
the poor dear old thing can hardly pronounce, though 
he had it from ‘our clergyman.” How sweet of the 
clergyman to humor him! Blessings on his kindly face 
and on his silver hair! Mr. Fuller Mellish comes back 
with the breech-loading carbine. The old man handles 
it; calls it a firelock; and goes crazily through his 
manual with it. Finally, he unlocks the breech, and 
as the barrel drops, believes that he has broken the 
weapon in two. Matters being explained, he expresses 
his unalterable conviction that England will have to 
fall back on Brown Bess when the moment for action 
arrives again. He takes out his pipe. It falls and 
is broken. He whimpers, and is petted and consoled 
by a present of the sergeant’s beautiful pipe with “a 
hamber mouthpiece.” Mr. Fuller Mellish, becoming 
again superfluous, is again got rid of. Enter a haughty 
gentleman. It is the Colonel of the Royal Scots 
Guards, the corporal’s old regiment. According to the 
well-known custom of colonels, he has called on the old 
pensioner to give him a five-pound note. The old man, 
as if electrically shocked, staggers up and desperately 
tries to stand for a moment at “ attention ” and salute 
his officer. He collapses, almost slain by the effort, into 
his chair, mumbling pathetically that he “ were a’most 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 97 


gone that time, Colonel.” “ A masterstroke! who but 
a great actor could have executed this heart-searching 
movement? ”? The veteran returns to the fireside: once 
more he depicts with convincing art the state of an old 
man’s joints. The Colonel goes; Mr. Fuller Mellish 
comes; the old man dozes. Suddenly he springs up. 
‘The Guards want powder; and, by God, the Guards 
shall have it.” With these words he falls back in his 
chair. Mr. Fuller Mellish, lest there should be any 
mistake about it (it is never safe to trust the intelli- 
gence of the British public), delicately informs Miss 
Hughes that her granduncle is dead. The curtain falls 
amid thunders of applause. 

Every old actor into whose hands this article falls 
will understand perfectly from my description how 
the whole thing is done, and will wish that he could 
get such Press notices for a little hobbling and piping, 
and a few bits of mechanical business with a pipe, a 
carbine, and two chairs. The whole performance does 
not involve one gesture, one line, one thought outside 
the commonest routine of automatic stage illusion. 
What, I wonder, must Mr. Irving, who of course knows 
this better than any one else, feel when he finds this 
pitiful little handful of hackneyed stage tricks re- 
ceived exactly as if it were a crowning instance of his 
most difficult and finest art? No doubt he expected 
and intended that the public, on being touched and 
pleased by machinery, should imagine that they were 
being touched and pleased by acting. But the critics! 
What can he think of the analytic powers of those of 
us who, when an organized and successful attack 1s 
made on our emotions, are unable to discriminate be- 
tween the execution done by the actor’s art and that 
done by Mr. Conan Doyle’s ingenious exploitation of 


98 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the ready-made pathos of old age, the ignorant and 
maudlin sentiment attaching to the army and “the 
Dook,” and the vulgar conception of the battle of 
Waterloo as a stand-up street fight between an English- 
man and a Frenchman, a conception infinitely less re- 
spectable than that which led Byron to exclaim, when 
he heard of Napoleon’s defeat, “I’m damned sorry ”’? 

The first item in the Lyceum triple bill is Mr. 
Pinero’s “ Bygones,” in which Mr. Sydney Valentine, 
as Professor Mazzoni, acts with notable skill and judg- 
ment. Mr. Pinero used to play the part himself; but 
he was bitten then, like every one else at that time, 
with the notion that * character acting,” especially in 
parts that admitted of a foreign accent, was the per- 
fection of stage art; and his Mazzoni was accordingly 
worse than any one could believe without having scen it. 
Matters were made worse by the detestable and irre- 
deemable scene in which the old man proposes marriage 
to the girl. Mazzoni might excusably offer her, as a 
means of escape from her humiliating predicament, 
the position of his wife, and his friendly affection and 
fatherly care until he left her a widow; and he might 
make this offer being secretly in love with her, and so 
preserve the pathos of his subsequent disappointment. 
But to propose a serious love match to her as he does 
seems to me abominable: the scene makes my flesh 
creep: it always did. Mr. Valentine could not recon- 
cile me to it; nor should I have thanked him if he 
had; but he softened it as far as it could be softened; 
and his final leavetaking, with its effect of sparing us 
the exhibition of a grief which he nevertheless made us 
feel keenly behind that last sincere and kindly smile, 
was a fine stroke of art. He here, as elsewhere in the 
play, showed himself able to do with a few light and 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 99 


sure touches what most of our actors vainly struggle 
with by publicly wallowing in self-pity for minutes at 
a stretch. 

I hope I have not conveyed an impression that the 
triple bill makes a bad evening’s entertainment. 
Though it is my steady purpose to do what I can 
to drive such sketches as “ A Story of Waterloo,” 
with their ready-made feeling and prearranged effects, 
away to the music-hall, which 1s their proper place 
now that we no longer have a “ Gallery of Illustration,” 
I enjoy them, and am entirely in favor of their multi- 
plication so long as it is understood that they are not 
the business of fine actors and first-class theatres. And, 
abortive as “ Don Quixote ” is, there are moments in it 
when Wills vanishes, and we have Cervantes as the 
author and Mr. Irving as the actor — no cheap com- 
bination. Apart from the merits of the three plays, 
I suggest that it is a mistake — easily avoidable by a 
manager with Mr. Irving’s resources at his disposal — 
to cast Miss Annie Hughes and Mr. Webster for parts 
in two different pieces. I half expected to see Miss 
Hughes again in the third play; but Mr. Irving drew 
the line there, and entrusted the leading young lady’s 
part in “ Don Quixote ” to Miss de Silva. In “ By- 
gones,” Miss Ailsa Craig succeeds in giving a touch of 
interest to the part of the ill-conditioned servant who 
works the plot. Miss Hughes grows younger and 
prettier, and acts better, continually; only her voice 
still slyly contradicts her efforts to be pathetic, which 
are in all other respects credible and graceful enough. 


100 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


THE TWO LATEST COMEDIES 


The Home Secretary: an original modern play. By 
R. C. Carton. Criterion Theatre, 7 May, 1895. 

The Triumph of the Philistines, and how Mr. Jorgan 
preserved the morals of Market Pewbury under very 
trying circumstances: an original comedy in three acts. 
By Henry Arthur Jones. St. James’s Theatre, 11 
May, 1895. 


ing with Mr. Carton’s play, for, to tell the truth, 

I am forgetting it so rapidly that in another half- 
hour it may all have eseaped me. I must in fairness 
add that I did not see it very well, because, though 
there are only two pillars in the Criterion Theatre that 
you cannot see round, and consequently only two stalls 
from which the stage is not visible, I was placed in 
one of those two stalls. That is the worst of having 
a reputation as a critic of acting. They place you 
behind an obstacle which prevents you from seeing 
more than one person at a time, calculating that since 
you will always keep your cye on the actor-manager, 
your attention will be concentrated on him by the im- 
possibility of your seeing any one else. ‘This time, 
however, Mr. Wyndham had nothing particular to 
show me. There was no charaeter for him to create, 
and consequently nothing for him to do that was more 
than the merest routine for an actor of his accomplish- 
ment. ‘Though supposed to be a Home Secretary, he 
presented us with exactly the sort of Cabinet Minister 
who never goes to the Home Office. I fancy he has 
formed his politieal style on the Foreign Office, or the 


I MUST not stop to make an exordium before deal- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 101 


Colonial Office, perhaps even on the Duchy of Lan- 
caster, and is under the erroneous impression that the 
same sort of thing would do for the comparatively 
popular Home Office. But at all events, Mr. Wynd- 
ham knows more about Home Secretaries than Mr. 
Carton: in fact, he could not possibly know less. Mr. 
Carton has a second-hand imagination and a stagger- 
ing indifference to verisimilitude. Inspired by Miss 
Neilson’s appearance in the play of “ An Ideal Hus- 
band ” as the beautiful wife who is too truthful to 
approve of all the official utterances of the Cabinet 
Minister whom she has rashly married, he shoots Miss 
Neilson on to the stage in that relation to Mr. Wynd- 
ham, with nothing better to account for her domestic 
unhappiness than the articles in the Opposition papers. 
Imagine Mrs. Asquith’s domestic peace being shattered 
by an article in the St. James’s Gazette! 'The rest of 
the play is of less recent origin; but one need go no 
further back than “ The House in the Marsh,” or 
“ Captain Swift,” in tracing the descent of Danger- 
field, the Anarchist. Anything more wantonly non- 
sensical than the way in which Mr. Carton rearranges 
the facts of English society and politics so as to repre- 
sent Dangerfield as being engaged in a deadly duel of 
the Pompey and Cesar kind with the Home Secretary, 
would be hard to cite. As to all the stuff about mighty 
secret brotherhoods, and abysses of revolution opening 
at the feet of society, I invite Mr. Carton to manufac- 
ture his plays in future out of some less mischievous 
kind of absurdity. 

Apart from this serious bearing of the play on life, 
it is amusing enough to hear Mr. Lewis Waller at a 
West End theatre spouting the stalest commonplaces 
of the Socialist platforms with the full approval of the 


102 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


audience. No fashionable dramatist’s library will 
henceforth be complete without a copy of Mr. Hynd- 
man’s “‘ England for All.” Mr. Brookfield contributes 
one of those little imitations of social types of which 
he is fond. They are amusing; and they fulfil two 
indispensable conditions: to wit, they impress the pub- 
hic as being all different from one another, thereby 
creating a high estimate of Mr. Brookfield’s skill and 
versatility; and they are all exactly alike, so that the 
public has only one taste to acquire for them. Miss 
Julia Neilson plays very much better than in “ An 
Ideal Husband.” In that comedy she made the worst 
of a good part: in this, she made the best of an in- 
different one, though it was hard on her to have to sit 
down and examine her mind and conscience very slowly 
just when the audience had finally made up their minds 
that Mr. Carton had fashioned her perfectly hollow. 
In facet, the less interesting both the Home Secretary 
and his wife became, the more slowly Mr. Wyndham 
and Miss Neilson had to play, in order to make the 
final scene at least mechanically impressive. The effect 
was a little trying. The comedy scenes, which are 
laughable enough, were child’s play to Miss Mary 
Moore, Miss Maud Millet, Mr. de Lange, and Mr. 
Alfred Bishop; and Mr. Lewis Waller would hardly 
thank me for compliments on a performance so easily 
within his powers as the impersonation of Captain 
Swift Dangerfield. Mr. Sidney Brough’s part enabled 
him to show that rare quality of his of being at the 
same time a very “ useful ” actor and a very attractive 
one. On the whole, “The Home Secretary ” is a well 
acted, well staged, occasionally entertaining, and hope- 
lessly slovenly play. 

Mr. Henry Arthur Jones’s comedy with the nineteen- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 103 


word title, affords material for the social essayist rather 
than the dramatic critic, being avowedly an object- 
lesson in British lower middle-class hypocrisy. And 
the attack is not the usual sham attack of the stage 
moralist: it is courageous, uncompromising, made with 
sharp weapons, and left without the slightest attempt 
to run away at the end. When Mr. Jones appeared 
before the curtain several persons howled piteously, 
like dogs who had been purposely run over. Every 
play which is a criticism of contemporary life, 
must, if it is an honest play, involve a certain 
struggle with the public. Accordingly, Mr. Jones 
was not so unanimously applauded when the curtain 
fell on poor Mr. Jorgan’s very mixed “ triumph” 
as Mr. Pinero was after Mrs. Ebbsmith pulled the 
Bible out of the fire. But his courage was respected; 
and there, I think, he had the advantage of Mr. 
Pinero. 

There is a sense in which Mr. Jones’s plays are far 
more faulty than those of most of his competitors, 
exactly as a row of men is more faulty than a row of 
lampposts turned out by a first-rate firm. His qualli- 
ties are creative imagination, curious observation, in- 
ventive humor, originality, sympathy, and sincerity; 
and the risks of trusting to these are, like the rewards, 
very great. It is safer and cheaper to depend on the 
taste, judgment, instinct for fashion and knowledge of 
the stage and the public, by which plays can be con- 
structed out of ready-made materials, and guaranteed 
to pass an evening safely and smoothly, instead of, like 
the real live work of Mr. Jones, rousing all sorts of 
protests and jarring all sorts of prejudices, besides 
disgusting the professorial critics and amateurs by its 
impenitent informality. And then, Mr. Jones, follow- 


104 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ing in the footsteps of Dickens, plays every sort of 
extravagant and fanciful trick with his characters, in- 
venting insane names for them, making them express 
themselves in the most impossible way, and sometimes 
exasperating dull and literal people beyond all bounds. 
Thus, in “ The Triumph of the Philistines,” we have 
such a freak as Thomas Blagg, the butcher’s boy, 
clearly of the family of Trabb’s boy, of immortal 
memory; and with him are a Pumblechookian band of 
local tradesmen, who are not humanity simple and 
direct, but humanity made fun of. Still, if the de- 
tails are outrageous, the general effect is mostly right ; 
for Mr. Jones knows his Market Pewbury well enough 
to joke with it. On the subject of Art I find him less 
convincing. His identification of it with the sort of 
Epicurean philosophy which is always at daggers 
drawn with Puritanism is roughly true to life — suffi- 
ciently so, at all events, for dramatic purposes. But 
his identification of Puritanism with Philistinism seems 
to me to be a fundamental confusion. A Philistine is a 
prosaic person whose artistic consciousness 1s unawak- 
ened and who has no ideals. <A Puritan is no doubt 
often at the same disadvantage as the Philistine in 
respect of his insensibility to Art; but he is a fanatical 
idealist, to whom all stimulations of the sense of beauty 
are abhorrent; because he is only conscious of them 
in so far as they appeal to his sex instinct, which he 
regards as his great enemy. However, it is not this 
point that Mr. Jones has missed; for his Mr. Jorgan, 
though called a Philistine, corresponds exactly to a 
Puritan. Even when Sir Valentine Fellowes, a thor- 
ough Philistine, is put in opposition to the Philistines 
and in sympathy with Willie Hesslewood the painter, 
he remains nevertheless as lifelike a Philistine as Mr. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 105 


Jorgan is a Puritan; so that one is tempted to ask 
whether it matters what the twain are called, since the 
author’s method of working upon life instead of upon 
theories of society and canons of art seems sure to save 
him from anything worse than a confusion of names. 
But thought has its empire after all; and when Mr. 
Jones claims the sympathy of the audience for the 
Philistine as against the Puritan, the Puritan snatches 
the sympathy from him; for the idealist, being the 
higher if more dangerous animal, always does beat the 
Philistine. A picture of Bacchante is exhibited on the 
stage, with its back to the audience, an arrangement 
which gives it away from the beginning as not fit to 
be seen. Mr. Jorgan the Puritan, having no artistic 
sense, denounces the artist as a mere pandar, and the 
picture as an artifice to make men more sensual. Sir 
Valentine’s defence is in effect “‘ Why not? Life would 
not be worth living unless ‘people are allowed to sow 
a few wild oats, as I do occasionally; and if you inter- 
fere with my pleasures I ’ll spend my income on the 
Continent instead of in your shops.” Mr. Jones’s in- 
stinct for character led him rightly to make Sir Valen- 
tine take that line. But what chance is there of the 
audience taking his side? They must feel, as I feel, 
that the Puritan’s attitude is more respectable than the 
Philistine’s. If Art were really a matter of Bacchante 
pictures painted by amorous young artists from rap- 
scallionly little models, to be defended only by easy- 
going men of pleasure and cynical old society ladies 
who regard men as incurable voluptuaries, then surely 
we should all say Amen to Mr. Skewett’s “ Burn it, I 
say. Burn it; and have done with the iniquity.” The 
fact is, Mr. Jones, revelling in his characters and scenes 
and dialogues, and keen on the scent of the narrowness 


106 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


and hypocrisy of Market Pewbury, has not got up his 
case thoroughly; and the result is that the plan of 
action which he has invented, with its studio machinery 
and its substitution of a picture for a question of con- 
duct, does not strike one as being quite the right plan; 
whilst Market Pewbury is left, after all, with the best 
of the argument. 

The acting is hardly as good as the play. Mr. 
Alexander’s comedy is too smart: Sir Valentine is never 
really distressed or at a loss, as he certainly ought 
to be at the end of the second act. Mr. Waring, as 
Jorgan, is admirable in action; but before he gets to 
work, it is plain that the part does not naturally fit 
him. Mr. Esmond’s Willie Hesslewood is perhaps the 
most entirely successful of all the impersonations in- 
volved, except Miss Juliette Nesville’s immense, irre- 
sistible Sally Lebrune. Mr. Jones has carried out the 
idea of this character to a hair’s breadth; and the dis- 
advantage at which the young woman’s entire and per- 
fect worthlessness puts all the more respectable char- 
acters is of the essence of comedy. Lady Monckton’s 
work is less interesting to the audience than technically 
important to the play; and only the expert can be 
expected to appreciate how very well she does it. Miss 
Elliott Page was quite ladylike and natural as Alma 
Suleny; but I am afraid the only thanks she got for 
not overdressing herself and forcing the significance of 
every sentence was a sense that she was underacting. 
She certainly added nothing to her part, an omission 
which would be rather serious in some plays, since noth- 
ing plus nothing equals nothing; but it did not matter 
with Mr. Jones as the author. The half-dozen little 
sallies of character-acting which filled up the stage with 
the Puritans of Market Pewbury were, of course, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 107 


easily and amusingly done; but they were too funny 
and too intentional to be convincing, and the total 
effect was only made creditable by the acting of Mr. 
Waring. 


A NEW LADY MACBETH AND A 
NEW MRS. EBBSMITH 


25 May, 1896. 
AST Saturday evening found me lurking, an un- 


invited guest, in an obscure corner of the Garrick 

Theatre, giving Mrs. Ebbsmith another trial in 
the person of Miss Olga Nethersole. This time I care- 
fully regulated the dose, coming late for the prelimi- 
nary explanations, and hurrying home at the end of 
the second act, when Mrs. Ebbsmith had put her fine 
dress on, and was beginning to work up towards the 
stove. I cannot say I enjoyed myself very much; for 
the play bored me more than ever; but I perceived 
better than I did before that the fault was not alto- 
gether Mr. Pinero’s. The interest of the first act de- 
pends on Mrs. Thorpe really affecting and interesting 
her audience in her scene with Agnes. Miss Ellis 
Jeffreys fails to do this. I do not blame her, just as 
I should not blame Mr. Charles Hawtrey if he were 
cast for the ghost in Hamlet and played it somewhat 
disappointingly. On the contrary, I congratulate her 
on her hopeless incapacity to persuade us that she is 
the victim of an unhappy marriage, or that she lives 
in a dreary country rectory where she walks about like 
a ghost about her dead child’s room in the intervals of 


108 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


housekeeping for her parson brother. She has obvi- 
ously not a scrap of anything of the kind in her whole 
disposition; and that Mr. Pinero should have cast her 
for such business in a part on which his whole first 
act and a good deal of the rest of the play depends, 
suggests that his experience of the impossibility of 
getting all his characters fitted in a metropolis which 
has more theatres than companies is making him reck- 
less. The impression left is that the scene between 
Agnes and Mrs. Thorpe is tedious and colorless, and 
that between Agnes and the Duke biting and full of 
character. But really one scene is as good as the 
other; only Mr. Hare’s Duke of St. Olpherts is a con- 
summate piece of acting, whilst Miss Jeffreys’ Mrs. 
Thorpe is at best a graceful evasion of an impossible 
task. This was less noticeable before, because Mrs. 
Patrick Campbell counted for so much in both scenes 
that the second factor in them mattered less. With 
Miss Nethersole, who failed to touch the character of 
Agnes at any point as far as I witnessed her perform- 
ance, it mattered a great deal. I have no doubt that 
Miss Nethersole pulled the Bible out of the stove, and 
played all the “emotional” scenes as well as Mrs. 
Campbell or any one else could play them; but cer- 
tainly in the first two acts, where Mrs. Ebbsmith, not 
yet reduced to a mere phase of hysteria, is a self- 
possessed individual character, Miss Nethersole gave us 
nothing but the stage fashion of the day in a very 
accentuated and conscious manner. Mrs. Campbell’s 
extraordinary power of doing anything surely and 
swiftly with her hands whilst she is acting, preoccu- 
pation seeming an embarrassment unknown to her, is 
a personal peculiarity which cannot reasonably be de- 
manded from her competitors. But Miss Nethersole 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 109 


seems to set a positive value on such preoccupation. 
When she pretends to darn a stocking she brings it 
down to the footlights, and poses in profile with the 
stockinged hand raised above the level of her head. 
She touches nothing without first poising her hand 
above it like a bird about to alight, or a pianist’s 
fingers descending on a chord. She cannot even take 
up the box containing the rich dress to bundle it off 
into the next room, without disposing her hands round 
it with an unmistakable reference to the conventional 
laws of grace. The effect in these first two acts, 
throughout which Mrs. Ebbsmith is supposed to be 
setting Lucas Cleeve’s teeth on edge at every turn by 
her businesslike ways, plain dress, and impatience of 
the effects that charm the voluptuary, may be imagined. 
The change of dress, with which Mrs. Campbell achieved 
such a very startling effect, produced hardly any with 
Miss Nethersole, and would have produced none but for 
the dialogue; for Mrs. Ebbsmith had been so obviously 
concerned all through with the effect of her attitudes, 
that one quite expected that she would not neglect her- 
self when it came to dressing for dinner. The “ Trafal- 
gar Squaring ” of the Duke, a complete success on Mr. 
Hare’s part, was a complete failure on Miss Nether- 
sole’s. Mrs. Campbell caught the right platform tone 
of political invective and contemptuous social criticism 
to perfection: Miss Nethersole made the speech an 
emotional outburst, flying out at the Duke exactly as, 
in a melodrama, she would have flown out at the 
villain who had betrayed her. My inference is that 
Miss Nethersole has force and emotion without sense 
of character. With force and emotion, and an 
interesting and plastic person, one can play “ the 
heroine ” under a hundred different names with en- 


110 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


tire success. But the individualized heroine is another 
matter; and that is where Mrs. Patrick Campbell 
comes in. 

It is usual to describe Mr. Hare as an actor who does 
not do himself justice on first nights because he is 
nervous. His Duke of St. Olpherts is certainly not 
an instance of this. It is still capital; but compared 
to his superb performance on the first night, it is 
minced in diction and almost off-hand in deportment. 
I have come to the conclusion that Mr. Forbes Rob- 
ertson is only less out of place as Lucas Cleeve than 
Miss Jeffreys as Mrs. Thorpe. In contrast to the 
cool intensity of Mrs. Campbell, his strong, resolute 
manner, slackened as much as he could slacken it, barely 
passed muster on the first night as the manner of the 
weak neurotic creature described by the Duke. But 
with Miss Nethersole, whose Mrs. Ebbsmith is really 
not Mrs. Ebbsmith at all, but a female Lucas Cleeve, 
even that faint scrap of illusion vanishes, and 1s re- 
placed by a contrast of personal style in flat contra- 
diction to the character relationship which is the sub- 
ject of the drama. I still do not think “ The Notorious 
Mrs. Ebbsmith ” could be made a good play by any- 
thing short of treating Agnes’s sudden resolution to 
make Lucas fall in love with her as a comedy motive 
(as it essentially is), and getting rid of the claptrap 
about the Bible, finishing the play with Lucas’s dis- 
covery that his wife is quite as good a woman as he 
could stand life with, and possibly — though on this 
I do not insist — with Agnes’s return to the political 
platform as the Radical Duchess of St. Olpherts. But 
I am at least quite convinced now that the play as it 
stands would be much more interesting if the other 
characters were only half as appropriately imperson- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 111 


ated as the Duke of St. Olpherts is by Mr. Hare, or 
as Mrs. Ebbsmith was by Mrs. Campbell. 

By the way, I have received a sixpenny pamphlet, 
by Mr. H. Schiitz Wilson, entitled “The Notorious 
Mrs. Ebbsmith,” published by Messrs. Bickers. My 
opinion being thus challenged, I cheerfully acknowl- 
edge the pre-eminence of the pamphlet, from my point 
of view, as the worst pamphlet I ever read on any sub- 
ject whatsoever. That, however, is only a way of say- 
ing that I cannot agree with Mr. Schiitz Wilson. The 
difference may be my fault as well as my misfortune. 
He accepts the play as a great “spiritual tragedy,” 
and considers that the casting of it at the Garrick 
Theatre was perfect in every part. And so, as he says, 
* Farewell, Agnes! and may all good go with you in 
the future. After all, you did not burn tHE Boox.” 

Readers who have noticed the heading of this article 
may possibly want to know what Lady Macbeth has to 
do with it. Well, I have discovered a new Lady Mac- 
beth. It is one of my eccentricities to be old-fashioned 
in my artistic tastes. For instance, I am fond — un- 
affectedly fond — of Shakespeare’s plays. I do not 
mean actor-manager’s editions and revivals! JI mean 
the plays as Shakespeare wrote them, played straight 
through line by line and scene by scene as nearly as 
possible under the conditions of representation for 
which they were designed. I have seen the suburban 
amateurs of the Shakespeare Reading Society, seated 
like Christy minstrels on the platform of the lecture 
hall at the London Institution, produce, at a moderate 
computation, about sixty-six times as much effect by 
reading straight through “ Much Ado About Noth- 
ing”? as Mr. Irving with his expensively mounted and 
superlatively dull Lyceum version. When these same 


112 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


amateurs invited me to a regular stage performance of 
“* Macbeth ” in aid of the Siddons Memorial Fund, I 
went, not for the sake of Sarah the Respectable, whose 
great memory can take care of itself (how much fresher 
it is, by the way, than those of many writers and 
painters of her day, though no actor ever makes a 
speech without complaining that he is cheated out of 
the immortality every other sort of artist enjoys!), but 
simply because I wanted to see “ Macbeth.” Mind, I 
am no admirer of the Elizabethan school. When Mr. 
Henry Arthur Jones, whose collected essays on the 
English drama I am now engaged in reading, says: 
‘Surely the crowning glory of our nation is our 
Shakespeare; and remember he was one of the great 
school,”? I almost burst with the intensity of my re- 
pudiation of the second clause in that utterance. What 
Shakespeare got from his ** school ” was the insane and 
hideous rhetoric which is all that he has in common 
with Jonson, Webster, and the whole crew of insuffer-— 
able bunglers and dullards whose work stands out as 
vile even at the beginning of the seventeenth century, 
when every art was corrupted to the marrow by the 
orgie called the Renaissanee, which was nothing but 
the vulgar exploitation in the artistic professions of 
the territory won by the Protestant movement. ‘The 
leaders of that great self-assertion of the growing spirit 
of man were dead long before the Elizabethan literary 
rabble became conscious that “ ideas ”? were in fashion, 
and that any author who could gather a cheap stock 
of them from murder, lust and obscenity, and formulate 
them in rhetorical blank verse, might make the stage 
pestiferous with plays that have no ray of noble feel- 
ing, no touch of faith, beauty, or even common kind. 
ness in them from beginning to end. [I really cannot 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 118 


keep my temper over the Elizabethan dramatists and 
the Renaissance; nor would I if I could. The genera- 
tion which admired them equally admired the pictures 
of Guido, Giulio Romano, Domenichino, and the Car- 
racci; and I trust it is not nowadays necessary to 
offer any further samples of its folly. A masterpiece 
by Carracci— say the smirking Susanna in the Na- 
tional Gallery — would not fetch seven pounds ten 
at Christie’s to-day; but our literary men, always 
fifty years behind their time because they never look 
at anything nor listen to anything, but go on working 
up what they learnt in their boyhood when they read 
books instead of writing them, still serve up Charles 
Lamb’s hobby, and please themselves by observing that 
Cyril Tourneur could turn out pretty pairs of lines and 
string them monotonously together, or that Greene had 
a genuine groatsworth of popular wit, or that Marlowe, 
who was perhaps good enough to make it possible to 
believe that if he had been born thirty years ago he 
might now have been a tolerable imitator of Mr. Rud- 
yard Kipling, dealt in a single special quality of 
“mighty line.” On the strength of these discoveries, 
they keep up the tradition that these men were slightly 
inferior Shakespeares. Beaumont and Fletcher are, in- 
deed, sometimes cited as hardly inferior; but I will not 
go into that. I could not do justice to it in moderate 
language. 

As to this performance of “Macbeth” at St. 
George’s Hall, of course it was, from the ordinary pro- 
fessional standpoint, a very bad one. I say this because 
IT well know what happens to a critic when he incau- 
tiously praises an amateur. He gets by the next post a 
letter in the following terms: “ Dear Sir, —I am per- 
haps transgressing the bounds of etiquette in writing 


114 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


privately to you; but I thought you might like to know 
that your kind notice of my performance as Guilden- 
stern has encouraged me to take a step which J have 
long been meditating. I have resigned my position as 
Governor of the Bank of England with a view to adopt- 
ing the stage as a profession, and trust that the result 
may justify your too favorable opinion of my humble 
powers.” Therefore I desire it to be distinctly under- 
stood that I do not recommend any member of the 
“Macbeth” cast to go on the stage. The three 
witches, Miss Florence Bourne, Miss Longvil, and Miss 
Munro, were as good as any three witches I ever saw; 
but the impersonation of witches, as a profession, 1s 
almost as precarious as the provision of smoked glasses 
for looking at eclipses through. Macduff was bad: I 
am not sure that with his natural advantages he could 
very easily have been worse; but still, if he feels him- 
self driven to some artistic career by a radical aversion 
to earning an honest livelihood, and is prepared for a 
hard apprenticeship of twenty years in mastering the 
art of the stage — for that period still holds as good as 
when Talma prescribed it — he can become an actor if 
he hikes. As to Lady Macbeth, she, too, was bad; but 
it is clear to me that unless she at once resolutely 
marries some rich gentleman who disapproves of the 
theatre on principle, she will not be able to keep herself 
off the stage. She is as handsome as Miss Neilson; and 
she can hold an audience whilst she is doing everything 
wrongly. The murder scene was not very good, because 
Macbeth belonged to the school of the Irish fiddler who, 
when Ole Bull asked him whether he played by ear or 
from notes, replicd that he played “ by main strength ” ; 
and you cannot get the brooding horror of the dagger 
scene by that mcthod. Besides, Miss Lillah McCarthy 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 115 


— that is the lady’s name as given in my programme 
—is happily too young to conceive ambition and mur- 
der, or the temptation of a husband with a sickly con- 
science, as realities: they are to her delicious excite- 
ments of the imagination, with a beautiful, splendid 
terror about them, to be conveyed by strenuous pose, 
and flashing eye, and indomitable bearing. She went 
at them bravely in this spirit; and they came off more 
or less happily as her instinct and courage helped her, 
or her skill failed her. The banquet scene and the sleep- 
walking scene, which are the easiest passages in the 
part technically to a lady with the requisite pluck and 
personal fascination, were quite successful; and if the 
earlier scenes were immature, unskilful, and entirely 
artificial and rhetorical in their conception, still, they 
were very nearly thrilling. In short, I should like to 
see Miss Lillah McCarthy play again. I venture on 
the responsibility of saying that her Lady Macbeth 
was a highly promising performance, and that some 
years of hard work would make her a valuable recruit 
to the London stage. And with that very rash remark 
I will leave “ Macbeth,” with a fervent wish that Mr. 
Pinero, Mr. Grundy, and Monsieur Sardou could be 
persuaded to learn from it how to write a play without 
wasting the first hour of the performance in tediously 
explaining its “construction.” They really are mis- 
taken in supposing that Scribe was cleverer than 
Shakespeare. 


116 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


SARDOODLEDOM 


Fedora (Herman Merivale’s English version). By 
Victorien Sardou. Haymarket Theatre, 25 May, 1895. 
Gismonda. By Victorien Sardou. Daly’s Theatre, 27 
May, 1895. 


P to this day week I had preserved my innocence 
| as a playgoer sufficiently never to have seen 

“Fedora.” Of course I was not altogether new 
to it, since I had seen Diplomacy Dora, and Theodora, 
and La Toscadora, and other machine dolls from the 
same firm. And yet the thing took me aback. ‘To see 
that curtain go up again and again only to diselose 
a bewildering profusion of everything that has ne bust- 
ness in a play, was an experience for which nothing 
could quite prepare me. The postal arrangements, tlie 
telegraphie arrangements, the police arrangements, tlie 
names and addresses, the hours and seasons, the tables 
of consanguinity, the railway and shipping time-tables, 
the arrivals and departures, the whole welter of Brac- 
shaw and Baedeker, Court Guide and Post Office Direc- 
tory, whirling round one incredible little stage murder 
and finally vanishing in a gulp of impossible stage 
poison, made up an entertamment too Bedlamite for 
any man with settled wits to preconccive. Even the 
murder was arranged, in pure wantonness, flatly con- 
trary to common sense. The hero is suspected by the 
heroine of having been a Nihilist at a period when mat- 
ters were so bad in Russia that refugees who made no 
secret of their sympathy with the Terrorists were sym- 
pathetically welcomed by the strictest Constitutional- 
ists in every other country in Europe. He completely 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 117 


regains her sympathy by proving to her that he is no 
Nihilist at all, but a common assassin who has deliber- 
ately murdered a man out of jealousy. Surely, if 
dramatists are bent on the fundamentally impossible 
task of inventing pardonable assassinations, they should 
recognize that the man who, for no reward or satis- 
faction to his direct personal instincts, but at the risk 
of his own life, kills for the sake of an idea, believing 
that he is striking in the cause of the general weal, 
is at any rate more respectable than the dehumanized 
creature who stabs or shoots to slake a passion which 
he has in common with a stag. I strongly object to 
heroic criminals, whether political or personal; but if 
the stage cannot yet get on without its illustrated police 
inews, let us at least shun the most repulsive motives 
for the stage crimes we are expected to condone. This 
Loris Ipanoff is a vulgar scoundrel as far as he is 
credibly human at all; and Fedora, who has at first 
the excuse of being the avenger of blood, sinks to his 
level when, on learning that her husband preferred an- 
other woman to her, she gloats over his murder, and is 
disappointed because Loris did not kill his wife on the 
spot, too. Why need plays be so brutally, callously, 
barbarously immoral as this? I wish Sir Henry Irving 
would give us at least a matinée of “The Lady from 
the Sea ” to show the playgoing public how a humane 
gentleman acts when he finds he has had the misfortune 
to lose the affection of his wife. Miss Terry as Ellida 
‘would be quite as worthy of the Lyceum Theatre as 
Nance Oldfield as Miss Terry. 

It is greatly to Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s credit that, 
bad as the play was, her acting was worse. It was a 
masterpiece of failure. Not, pray observe, that Mrs. 
Campbell herself did not succeed. The moment she was 


118 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


seen, our reason collapsed and our judgment fled. 
Every time the curtain fell there was a delirious roar. 
If the play was not tragic, our infatuation was. I 
solemnly warn all and sundry that no common man’s 
opinion of the artistic merits of that performance was 
worth a farthing after the first flash of the heroine’s 
eyes. It was not Fedora; but it was Circe; and I, as 
sworn critic, must make the best attempt I can to be 
Ulysses. 

It cannot, I think, be disputed now that Mrs. Camp- 
bell’s force, which is intense enough, has only one mode, 
and that one the vituperative. This was proved at one 
stroke in the first act, when Fedora goes to her hus- 
band’s bedside and discovers him dead. Mrs. Campbell 
uttered a shriek, as any actress would; but it was a 
shriek that suggested nothing of grief, or mortally 
wounded tenderness, or even horror. What it did sug- 
gest very strongly was that Fedora had surprised the 
secret which Loris reveals to her in the third act. In 
short, it was a scream of rage. Again, in the second 
act, when Loris admitted the killing of Vladimir, her 
cry of “ Murderer, assassin,” might have been any abu- 
sive term hurled at a man, appropriately or not, under 
an impulse of violent anger. Last week I politely at- 
tributed to Mrs. Campbell’s sense of character her 
catching, as Mrs. Ebbsmith, what Miss Nethersole 
misses: namely, the tone of invective in “ Trafalgar 
Squaring ” the Duke of St. Olpherts. But it now ap- 
pears that her emotion declines to take any other form 
than that of invective. When she is not abusing some- 
body, she sits visibly concentrating her forces to re- 
strain the vituperative pressure which is struggling to 
expand in reckless aggression, the general effect being 
that of a magnificent woman with a magnificent temper, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 119 


which she holds in or lets loose with exciting uncer- 
tainty. This of course means that Mrs. Campbell is 
not yet mistress of her art, though she has a rare equip- 
ment for it. Even her diction is technically defective. 
In order to secure refinement of tone, she articulates 
with the tip of her tongue against her front teeth as 
much as possible. This enters for what it is worth and 
no more into the method of every fine speaker; but it 
should not suggest the snobbish Irishman who uses it 
as a cheap recipe for speaking genteel English; and 
once or twice Mrs. Campbell came dangerously near to 
producing this mincing effect. For instance, “ One ab- 
sorbing thought which meeks a sleeve of me,” is clearly 
not the excess of a genuine refinement of diction, like 
Sir Henry Irving’s pure vowel method, which would 
lead him to say “One ap-sorbing thot which méeks a 
slév of me” (the p in absorbing being a German b, 
and the italic letters pronounced as in the French 
fidele). I am only moderately pedantic in this matter, 
and do not object at all to Mrs. Campbell’s saying 
‘* Forgimme ” for “ Forgive me,” or the traditional and 
ugly “ Be’t so” for the correct and pretty “ Be it 
so”; but I protest against “ hatrid ” and “ disseived,” 
which are pure inaccuracies produced by that Irish 
recipe. I make no apology for going into these details; 
for stage usage 1s one of our few standards of diction; 
and it is rather alarming to hear the extent to which 
our younger actresses are left to pick up the stage trick 
of speech without in the least understanding the pho- 
netic part of it. 

The death scene begins like a feeble drawing-room 
plagiarism of the murder of Nancy by Bill Sykes, 
and ends with the Gilbertian absurdity of the woman, 
as she realizes with disgust that her husband actually 


120 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


proposes to commit the vulgarity of strangling her, 
rising with a dignity which paralyzes him, and saying, 
“Oh, if you are determined to behave in that way, I 
will poison myself like a lady; and you, I hope, will 
look on quietly like a gentleman,” or words to that 
effect. Here Mrs. Campbell did for a moment produce 
the effect which Sardou has so tediously and laboriously 
Jath-and-plastered up, and produce it in a way which 
showed unmistakably that she is quite capable of the 
modern equivalents of the whole Bernhardtian range of 
sensational effects — effects so enormously popular and 
lucrative that, though their production is hardly more 
of a fine art than lion-taming, few women who are able 
for them can resist the temptation to devote their lives 
to them. At every other point, Mrs. Campbell threw 
Sardou out of the window and substituted her own per- 
sonal magnetism for the stale mechanical tragedy of 
Fedora. It was irrelevant; but it was effective. 
Sardou’s latest edition of the Kiralfian entertainment 
which Madame Bernhardt has for years past dragged 
from sea to sea in her Armada of transports, is called 
‘** Gismonda,” and is surpassingly dreary, although it is 
happily relieved four times by very long waits between 
the acts. The scene being laid in the Middle Ages, there 
are no newspapers, letters, or telegrams; but this is far 
from being an advantage, as the characters tell each 
other the news all through except when a child is 
dropped into a tiger’s cage as a cue for Madame Bern- 
hardt’s popular scream; or when the inevitable stale, 
puerile love scene is turned on to show off that “ voix 
celeste ” stop which Madame Bernhardt, like a senti- 
mental New England villager with an American organ, 
keeps always pulled out; or when, in a paroxysm of 
the basest sensationalism, we are treated to the spec- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 121 


tacle of Gismonda chopping a man to death with a 
hatchet as a preliminary to appearing as a medieval 
saint with a palm in her hand at the head of a religious 
procession. What does it matter whether such an en- 
tertainment 1s called Gismonda, or Theodora, or Venice, 
or Constantinople, or The Orient, or Captain Boyton’s 
water show? Personally, I prefer the water show, 
because the sixty-foot header interested me, which 
Madame Bernhardt has long ceased to do; and the 
sensation of shooting the chute thrilled me, which 
** Gismonda ” does not. As a pageant the affair may 
pass very well with people who, never having been 
touched by the peculiar spiritual beauty of the art of 
the Middle Ages, compare the scene-painter’s titivated 
imitations with the Lord Mayor’s Show and the archi- 
tecture of Regent Street with the originals; but it is 
no more to be compared to the pageantry of “ King 
Arthur ” at the Lyceum than the clever but thoroughly 
shoppy stage business of Madame Bernhardt is to be 
compared to the acting of Miss Ellen Terry. I con- 
fess I regard with a certain jealousy the extent to 
which this ex-artist, having deliberately exercised her 
unquestioned right to step down from the national 
theatre in which she became famous to posture in a 
travelling show, 1s still permitted the privileges and 
courtesies proper to her former rank. It is open to 
all actresses to say either, “‘ Give me a dignified living 
wage and let me work at my art,” or “ Give me as much 
money and applause as can possibly be got out of me, 
and let my art go hang.” Only, when the choice is 
made, it is the business of the critic to see that the 
chooser of the lower level does not take precedence of 
the devoted artist who takes the higher one. Madame 
Bernhardt has elected to go round the world pretending 


122 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


to kill people with hatchets and hairpins, and making, 
I presume, heaps of money. I wish her every success; 
but I shall certainly not treat her as a dramatic artist 
of the first rank unless she pays me well for it. Asa 
self-respecting critic I decline to be bought for nothing. 
It seems a strange thing to me that we should still 
be so little awake to the fact that in these plays which 
depend wholly on poignant intensity of expression for 
the simple emotions the sceptre has passed to the oper- 
atic artist. What surprises me is not that this exhibi- 
tion of Madame Bernhardt’s should be flagrantly vul- 
gar and commercial, or that it should be hackneyed and 
old-fashioned, but that we should dream of going to see 
it now that we have seen Calve as Carmen and La 
Navarraise. In the front ranks of art there is a place 
for the methods of Duse, and for the drama in which 
emotion exists only to make thought live and move us, 
but none for Sarah Bernhardt and the claptraps which 
Sardou contrives for her. To me, at least, the whole 
affair seems antiquated and ridiculous, except when I 
regard it as a high modern development of the circus 
and the waxworks. J have seen it, just as I have seen, 
in my time, Madame Celeste in “ Green Bushes ” and 
“ The Red Woman.” Though I always preferred Buck- 
stone to Sardou as a tragic dramatist, and still do, I 
used to think Madame Bernhardt a greater actress than 
Celeste. But I almost believe now that this must have 
been a delusion of the departed days when Madame 
Bernhardt was so slim that when she went for a trip 
in a captive balloon, it was said that her stepping into 
the car had the same effect as throwing out ballast. 
At all events, I am quite sure that if I had to choose 
between seeing Miami and Gismonda again, I should 
vote eagerly for Miami, who was at least amusing. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 123 


To revert for a moment to Fedora, I hope Mrs. 
Campbell will note that Sarah Bernhardt’s career can- 
not be repeated now — that her art is out of date and 
her dramas dead. The proof is that Mrs. Campbell 
cannot act Fedora, although to any actress over forty- 
five Fedora is more natural than Mrs. Tanqueray. By 
the way, I have forgotten to say that Mrs. Bancroft is 
in the cast, and is as amusing and skilful as ever. Mr. 
Tree, confronted with the impossible Loris Ipanoff, was 
forced to take the part seriously, and, with the help 
of a Polish make-up, try to pull it through by a 
creditably awkward attempt at conventional melodra- 
matic acting. Besides, Mrs. Campbell ruined his 
clothes. Wherever her beautiful white arms touched 
him they left their mark. She knelt at his feet and 
made a perfect zebra of his left leg with bars across 
it. Then she flung her arms convulsively right round 
him; and the next time he turned his back to the foot- 
lights there was little to choose between his coatback 
and his shirtfront. Before the act was over a gallon 
of benzine would hardly have set him right again. Mr. 
Tree had his revenge at the end of the play, when, in 
falling on Fedora’s body, he managed to transfer a 
large black patch to her cheek, which was strikingly 
in evidence when she bowed her acknowledgment of the 
frantic applause with which the evening ended; but he 
was still so unhinged by the futility of Loris and the 
ill-treatment of his garments, that when the audience 
called for Mr. Bancroft he informed them that Mr. 
Bancroft was prevented from coming forward by mod- 
esty, but that Mrs. Bancroft — and here Mrs. Ban- 
croft came forward smiling; and the audience naturally 
chuckled hugely. 

May I suggest that soap and water is an excellent 


124 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


cosmetic for the arms, and that it does not mark 
coats? Also that this whitewashing malpractice has 
become an intolerable absurdity, and that there is at 
least one critic who means to try whether ridicule can 
kill it. 


TWO PLAYS 


Macaire: a melodramatic farce in three acts. By 
William Ernest Henley and Robert Louis Stevenson. 
In the New Review, June, 1895. 

La Femme de Claude. By Alexandre Dumas fils. 
Drury Lane Theatre, 5 June, 1895. 


in the New Review the version of “* Robert Ma- 
33 


I SEE that Mr. William Henley has just published 


caire”” which he made in collaboration with the 
late R. L. Stevenson. I read the work myself for the 
first time before the revival of the old version at the 
Lyceum Theatre; and it has always struck me as a 
pat illustration of the divorce of the stage from litera- 
ture that we should have had, on the one hand, a famous 
writer of fiction collaborating with a born master of 
verse to rescue a famous old harlequinade from obso- 
lescence, and, on the other, a revival of this harlequin- 
ade by our leading actor managing our leading theatre; 
yet that there was no thought of combining the two 
opportunities, the revival at the theatre proceeding con- 
tentedly with the old cheap and common dialogue, writ- 
ten originally with the idea that the play was a serious 
blood-and-thunder melodrama, whilst the new version 
circulated quictly in private as a booklet, and finally 
appears as a wagazine contribution. It is a pity that 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 125 


Mr. Henley could not very well print the old version 
in his Review side by side with the new, in order to 
show, not only that the old is quite unreadable, and 
the new so wittily and whimsically turned that every 
phrase tickles, but that even the stage technique of the 
new is hugely superior to that of the old. Instead of 
two elaborate scenes, causing a long interval which a 
harlequinade will not bear, and entailing extra labor and 
expense, there is one scene all through, enabling the cur- 
tain to be dropped for a moment to point the situations 
and express conventionally the change from morning 
to bedtime, and from bedtime to murder-time, without 
perceptibly breaking the continuity of the extrava- 
ganza. ‘The incongruous relics of the original folly of 
the author are swept away, and the whole brought into 
the vein of the fantastic variation by which Lemaitre 
rescued the theme from obscurity. The effective situa- 
tions are preserved and improved; Macaire retains all 
his old business except the creaking snuff-box, in ex- 
change for which he acquires an epigrammatic philos- 
ophy expressed in lines which a distinguished actor need 
not be ashamed to speak; the ridiculous long-lost wife 
disappears; the gendarme and the innkeeper become 
amusing; the murder has the true touch of nightmare: 
in short, the two “literary men” have beaten the 
bungling stage “author” at his own craft in every 
point; outwritten him, outwitted him, outstaged him, 
and erased him from all future possibility in the eyes 
of cvery person of ordinary culture and intelligence 
who makes the comparison. And yet I have a grim 
conviction that actors will feel a mysterious “ suit- 
ability to the stage ” in the old version which is missing 
in the new. This divination of mine is not due to my 
unaided insight and sympathy, but to the fact that my 


126 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


education as a critic has not been confined to West 
End theatres. I remember finding myself one evening 
in the Whitechapel Road with a company of active- 
minded people, including two well-known ladies of dis- 
tinguished attainments in oratory and poetry, and a 
few gentlemen addicted, like myself, to art, literature, 
and politics. Presently we came upon a specimen of 
the humblest sort of theatre — a “ penny gaff’’; and 
as none of us had ever been in one, and we were all 
intelligent enough to desire to sce the drama of to-day 
with its adventitious trappings stripped off, we went in, 
raising the receipts at the box-office (so to speak) to 
such an extent that the performance, which had been 
** just going to begin ” for half an hour or so, actually 
did begin. First, however, the leading lady, who divided 
her attention between the stage and her baby, which 
was tucked into the box-seat of the orchestra (an old- 
fashioned street organ placed close to the door), re- 
sponded to a certain kindly interest on the part of our 
poetess in the baby by asking her to warn “ her gentle- 
man”? to cover up his watch chain, as many of the 
other gentlemen were “very forgetful.” The drama 
proved intolerable, except so far as it was complicated 
by an optical illusion of the Pepper’s Ghost order, 
turned on and off at random or at the caprice of a 
prompter who was no doubt drunk; so, as insect life 
abounded in the auditorium, we did not wait for the 
end. But in the fifteen minutes we spent in that gaff, 
I saw the origin of all the associations which the old 
actor still misses in the literary man. The conception 
of theatrical art as the exploitation of popular super- 
stition and ignorance, as the thrilling of poor bumpkins 
with ghosts and blood, exciting them with blows and 
stabs, duping them with tawdry affectations of rank 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 127 


and rhetoric, thriving parasitically on their moral 
diseases instead of purging their souls and refining their 
senses: this is the tradition that the theatre finds it so 
hard to get away from. This is why you have one 
version of “ Macaire” in the New Review and the 
other at the Lyceum — why an artist. of the rank of 
Coquelin informs his interviewers that there 1s no author 
who understands the stage like the author of “ La 
Tosca ®?—— why an actor so highly respected as Mr. 
Hare produced that genteel edition of the Whitechapel 
Road drama at the Garrick Theatre without the least 
scruple — why, too, so many fairly intelligent and rea- 
sonable people regard a visit to the theatre as an 
offence against morality, and others, who go to the 
theatre themselves, do not consider that a clergyman 
can fitly be seen there. 

‘“ Macaire,” then, looked at in this light, immedi- 
ately betrays innumerable deficiencies. The authors 
have brought a policeman on the stage without any 
sense of the audience’s fear of a policeman and dreadful 
joy in seeing some one else arrested; they have intro- 
duced a nobleman without allowing his rank to strike 
at our servility or his gold at our envy; they have, 
with the insensibility of men who have never been hun- 
gry, brought wine and choice dishes on the stage with- 
out knowing their value when flourished properly in the 
faces of needy men; they have passed unconsciously 
over the “ love ” interest, forgetting that half the popu- 
lar use of the boards is as a pedestal on which to set a 
well-painted, well-dressed woman in a strong light, to 
please the man who is tired of the mother of sorrows 
and drudgery at home; and they have put murder on 
the stage without calculating on the fact that murder 
is only a forbidden joy to people who know no other 


128 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


reasons than the gallows and the sixth commandment 
for not killing those whom they hate or whose property 
they covet. When the manager says of a play, “It is 
not suited to the stage,” and the critic who has been 
long enough at his profession to pick up the managerial 
point of view follows with his “Ce mest pas du 
théatre”’: that is fundamentally what they both mean, 
though superficially the matter may have a very dif- 
ferent air. And it is because Stevenson and Mr. Henley 
substituted for the low cunning and the cynical ex- 
perience which makes effective melodramas out of such 
calculations, the higher qualities of wit, imagination, 
romance, and humor, applied with a literary workman- 
ship which is at once curiously skilful and carelessly 
happy, that even the Lyceum Theatre dared not rise 
to their level. 

Now that the collaboration of the authors of “ Ma- 
caire”’ is broken up by the death of Stevenson, who 
must, I think, be admitted to have gone on without the 
managers rather better than the managers have gone 
on without him, one wonders whether Mr. Henley will 
carry on the business alone. The charm of the pair 
was their combination of artistic faculty with a pleas- 
ant boyishness of imagination. Stevenson, always the 
older of the twain, showed signs of growing up, and 
could even, when kept to the point by the collaboration 
of his stepson, produce stories that were not obviously 
the penny numbers of our boyhood rewritten by a fine 
hand. But Mr. Henley defies the ravages of time. 
That amusing mixture of pedantry and hero-worship 
which marks the schoolboy’s cult of athletics survives 
unabated and unenlightened in Mr. Henley’s cult of 
literature. He delights in puerile novels about prize- 


fighters, like ‘‘ Cashel Byron’s Profession”; he has 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 129 


imagination without sense; he not only adores his liter- 
ary and artistic heroes, but is violently jealous for their 
sakes of the reputations of all the others; his attitudes 
are reverently traditional; experience means to him the 
works of fiction he has read; at every turn of his pen 
he shows that cardinal quality of youth, its incapacity 
for apprehending life at first hand as distinguished 
from appreciating its presentations and formulations in 
art and social or scientific theory. And yet he has the 
romantic imagination and the fine gift of poetic speech 
which only need some concrete subject-matter — for 
really plays cannot, like poems or even articles, be made 
out of purely abstract indignation, scorn, defiance, and 
so on—to provide “ Macaire,” ‘‘ Admiral Guinea,” 
and the rest with more than worthy successors. 

The appearance of Duse at Drury Lane on Wednes- 
day in “ La Femme de Claude,” is too recent for my 
judgment to have recovered from the emotional dis- 
turbance produced by such an appeal as she made to 
my passion for very fine acting. The furthest extremes 
of Duse’s range as an artist must always, even in this 
greatest art centre in the world, remain a secret be- 
tween herself and a few fine observers. I should say 
without qualification that it is the best modern acting 
I have ever seen, were it not that the phrase suggests 
a larger experience of first-rate acting in this depart- 
ment than I possess. I have only seen Salvini and Ris- 
tori in their historic-heroic parts, or in Shakespeare; 
and my experience of Coquelin is limited to Moliére 
and such plays of our own day as “ Les Surprises de 
Divorce.” The work of these three great artists seemed 
to me (humanly speaking) quite thorough and perfect 
in its application to their conception of the parts they 
played; and their conception was, for the most part, 


130 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


adequate, and more than adequate, to the culture of 
their generation. But their incubatory period was the 
period before the theatre had advanced to the point 
at which Wagner and Ibsen became its master spirits. 
Duse is the first actress whom we have seen applying 
the method of the great school to characteristically 
modern parts or to characteristically modern concep- 
tions of old parts. Her style is not, to the attentive 
observer of the stage, entirely new: nothing arrives at 
such perfection without many tentative approaches to 
it. I remember, years ago, when “The Lady of 
Lyons ” was first produced at the Lyceum, being struck 
with two things about it: first, the fact that Henry 
Irving, after much striving and, 1f I may be allowed 
the expression, not a little floundering, had at last dis- 
covered the method of heroic acting; and, second, that 
in the scene where Claude brings Pauline home after 
their wedding, Miss Ellen Terry, by a number of deli- 
cate touches, slipped into the scene a play of subtle 
emotion quite foreign to its traditions, with such effect 
that I can conjure up those moments perfectly to this 
day, though my utmost effort of memory cannot bring 
back the very faintest adumbration of any other scene 
in Pauline’s part, which was as useless as material for 
Miss Terry’s peculiar genius as most of those twenty- 
three Lyceum heroines — Catherine Duval in “ A Dead 
Heart,”? and so forth —of which Mr. Clement Scott 
has made a list for my benefit, evidently to make me 
ery afresh over the wicked waste of so rare a talent. 
Of course the twenty-three parts are not all bad parts 
as parts are reckoned conventionally; and equally of 
course Miss Terry has not exactly played any of them 
badly. But neither is Shakespeare’s Cleopatra a bad 
part; and neither did Duse exactly play it badly. 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 181 


Yet who on earth would know that Duse was a great 
actress if he had never seen her play anything but 
Cleopatra? And who on earth will ever know what 
Miss Terry can do if we are never to see her except 
in plays that date, in feeling if not in actual compo- 
sition, from the dark ages before the Married Women’s 
Property Act? I can only guess at her powers myself 
from my recollections of the old Court Theatre, and 
the little interpolations in the Lyceum parts by which 
her genius so often instinctively thrusts through the 
old play to the new style, only, of course, to be beaten 
back by the giving out of the material. Still, just in 
these thrustings you could see Duse’s style coming. 
Long after the “ Lady of Lyons” came Miss Janet 
Achurch, whose playing as Alexandria, in Voss’s play, 
came nearer to Duse’s work in subtlety, continuity and 
variety of detail, and in beauty of execution, than any- 
thing I have seen on the English stage. But Duse has 
been helped to her supremacy by the fortunate stern- 
ness of Nature in giving her nothing but her genius. 
Miss Ellen Terry is a woman of quite peculiar and irre- 
sistible personal charm. Miss Achurch has been kept 
in constant danger of missing the highest distinction in 
her art by having, as an extra and cheaper string to 
her bow, an endowment of conventional good looks, and 
a large share of that power of expressing all the com- 
mon emotions with extraordinary intensity which makes 
the vulgar great actress of the Bernhardt school. Con- 
sequently you have two Miss Achurches: the Miss 
Achurch of Nora and Alexandra, and the Miss Achurch 
of Adrienne and Forget-me-not; and there are mo- 
ments when the two get mixed. But in Duse you 
necessarily get the great school in its perfect integrity, 
because Duse without her genius would be a plain little 


182 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


woman of no use to any manager, whereas Miss Terry 
or Miss Achurch, if they had no more skill than can 
be acquired by any person of ordinary capacity in the 
course of a few years’ experience, would always find a 
certain degree of favor as pretty leading ladies. Duse, 
with her genius, is so fascinating that it is positively 
difficult to attend to the play instead of attending 
wholly to her. The extraordinary richness of her are 
can only be understood by those who have studied the 
process by which an actress is built up. You offer a 
part to a young lady who is an enthusiastic beginner. 
She reads it devoutly, and forms, say, half a dozen 
great ideas as to points which she will make. The diffi- 
culty then is to induce her to do nothing between these 
points; so that the play may be allowed at such mo- 
ments to play itself. Probably when it comes to the 
point, these intervals will prove the only effective 
periods during her performance, the points being ll 
chosen or awkwardly executed. The majority of ac- 
tresses never get beyond learning not to invent new 
points for themselves, but rather to pick out in their 
parts the passages which admit of certain well worn 
and tried old points being reapplied. When they have 
learnt to make these points smoothly and to keep quiet 
between whiles with a graceful air of having good rea- 
sons for doing nothing, they are finished actresses. 
The great actress has a harder struggle. She goes on 
inventing her points and her business determinedly, con- 
stantly increasing the original half-dozen, and con- 
stantly executing them with greater force and smooth- 
ness. A time comes when she is always making points, 
and making them well; and this is the finishing point 
with some actresses. But with the greatest artists 
there soon commences an integration of the points into 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 133 


a continuous whole, at which stage the actress appears 
to make no points at all, and to proceed in the most 
unstudied and “ natural” way. This rare consumma- 
tion Duse has reached. An attentive study of her 
Marguerite Gauthier, for instance, by a highly trained 
observer of such things, will bring to hght how its 
apparently simple strokes are combinations of a whole 
series of strokes, separately conceived originally, and 
added one by one to the part, until finally, after many 
years of evolution, they have integrated into one single 
highly complex stroke. ‘Take, as a very simple illus- 
tration, the business of Camiulle’s tying up the flowers 
in the third act. It seems the most natural thing in 
the world; but it is really the final development of a 
highly evolved dance with the arms — even, when you 
watch it consciously, a rather prolonged and elaborate 
one. The strokes of character have grown up in just 
the same way. And this is the secret of the extraor- 
dinary interest of such acting. There are years of 
work, bodily and mental, behind every instant of it — 
work, mind, not mere practice and habit, which is quite 
a different thing. It is the rarity of the gigantic 
energy needed to sustain this work which makes Duse 
so exceptional; for the work is in her case highly in- 
tellectual work, and so requires energy of a quality 
altogether superior to the mere head of steam needed 
to produce Bernhardtian explosions with the requisite 
regularity. With such high energy, mere personal 
fascination becomes a thing which the actress can put 
off and on like a garment. Sarah Bernhardt has noth- 
ing but her own charm, for the exhibition of which 
Sardou contrives love scenes — save the mark. Duse’s 
own private charm has not yet been given to the public. 
She gives you Césarine’s charm, Marguerite Gauthier’s 


1384 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


charm, the charm of La Locandiera, the charm, in 
short, belonging to the character she impersonates; 
and you are enthralled by its reality and delighted by 
the magical skill of the artist without for a moment 
feeling any complicity either on your own part or hers 
in the passion represented. And with that clue to the 
consistency of supreme admiration for the artist with 
perfect respect for the woman — a combination so rare 
that some people doubt its possibility — I must leave 
discussion of the plays she has appeared in this week 
to my next article. 


DUSE AND BERNHARDT 


15 June, 1895. 
M: WILLIAM ARCHER’S defence of the dra- 


matic critics against Mr. Street’s indictment 

of them for their indifference to acting appears 
to be falling through. Mr. Archer pleads that whereas 
Hazlitt and Leigh Hunt had frequent opportunities of 
comparing ambitious actors in famous parts, the mod- 
ern dramatic critic spends his life in contemplating 
** good acting plays ” without any real people in them, 
and performers who do not create or interpret char- 
acters, but simply lend their pretty or popular persons, 
for a consideration, to fill up the parts. Mr. Archer 
might have added another reason which applies to 
nearly all modern works: to wit, the operation of our 
copyright laws, whereby actors and actresses acquire 
the right not only to perform new plays but to prevent 
any one else from performing them. Nevertheless we 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 185 


critics can now at last outdo Hazlitt and Leigh Hunt 
if we have a mind to; for we have just had two Mrs. 
Ebbsmiths to compare, besides a fourth Fedora, and 
Duse and Sarah Bernhardt playing “‘La Dame aux 
Camellias ” and Sudermann’s “ Heimat ” against one 
another at Daly’s Theatre and at Drury Lane. Clearly 
now or never is the time for triumphant refutation of 
the grievance of the English actor against the English 
Press: namely, that hardly any critic knows enough 
about acting to be able to distinguish between an 
effective part and a well played one, or between the 
bag of tricks which every old hand carries and the 
stock of ideas and sense of character which distinguish 
the master-actor from the mere handy man. 

This week began with the relapse of Sarah Bern- 
hardt into her old profession of serious actress. She 
played Magda in Sudermann’s “ Heimat,” and was 
promptly challenged by Duse in the same part at Drury 
I.ane on Wednesday. ‘The contrast between the two 
Magdas is as extreme as any contrast could possibly 
be between artists who have finished their twenty years’ 
apprenticeship to the same profession under closely 
similar conditions. Madame Bernhardt has the charm 
of a jolly maturity, rather spoilt and petulant, per- 
haps, but always ready with a sunshine-through-the- 
clouds smile if only she is made much of. Her dresses 
and diamonds, if not exactly splendid, are at least 
splendacious; her figure, far too scantily upholstered 
in the old days, is at its best; and her complexion 
shows that she has not studied modern art in vain. 
Those charming roseate effects which French painters 
produce by giving flesh the pretty color of strawberries 
and cream, and painting the shadows pink and crim- 
son, are cunningly reproduced by Madame Bernhardt 


186 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


in the living picture. She paints her ears crimson and 
allows them to peep enchantingly through a few loose 
braids of her auburn hair. Every dimple has its dab 
of pink; and her finger-tips are so delicately incarna- 
dined that you fancy they are transparent like her 
ears, and that the light is shining through their delicate 
blood-vessels. Her lips are like a newly painted pillar 
box; her cheeks, right up to the languid lashes, have 
the bloom and surface of a peach; she is beautiful with 
the beauty of her school, and entirely inhuman and 
increditable. But the incredibility is pardonable, be- 
cause, though it is all the greatest nonsense, nobody 
believing in it, the actress herself least of all, it is so 
artful, so clever, so well recognized a part of the busi- 
ness, and carried off with such a genial air, that it is 
impossible not to accept it with good-humor. One 
feels, when the heroine bursts on the scene, a dazzling 
vision of beauty, that instead of imposing on you, she 
adds to her own piquancy by looking you straight in 
the face, and saying, in effect: “ Now who would ever 
suppose that I am a grandmother?” That, of course, 
is irresistible; and one is not sorry to have been coaxed 
to relax one’s notions of the dignity of art when she 
gets to serious business and shows how ably she does 
her work. The coaxing suits well with the childishly 
egotistical character of her acting, which is not the 
art of making you think more highly or feel more 
deeply, but the art of making you admire her, pity 
her, champion her, weep with her, laugh at her jokes, 
follow her fortunes breathlessly, and applaud her wildly 
when the curtain falls. It is the art of finding out all 
your weaknesses and practising on them — cajoling 
you, harrowing you, exciting you — on the whole, fool- 
ing you. And it is always Sarah Bernhardt in her own 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 1387 


capacity who does this to you. The dress, the title 
of the play, the order of the words may vary; but 
the woman is always the same. She does not enter into 
the leading character; she substitutes herself for it. 
All this is precisely what does not happen in the 
case of Duse, whose every part is a separate creation. 
When she comes on the stage, you are quite welcome 
to take your opera-glass and count whatever lines time 
and care have so far traced on her. ‘They are the 
credentials of her humanity; and she knows better than 
to obliterate that significant handwriting beneath a 
layer of peach-bloom from the chemist’s. The shadows 
on her face are gray, not crimson; her lips are some- 
times nearly gray also; there are neither dabs nor dim- 
ples; her charm could never be imitated by a barmaid 
with unlimited pin money and a row of footlights be- 
fore her instead of the handles of a beer-engine. The 
result is not so discouraging as the patrons of the bar 
might suppose. Wilkes, who squinted atrociously, 
boasted that he was only quarter of an hour behind 
the handsomest man in Europe: Duse is not in action 
five minutes before she is quarter of a century ahead 
of the handsomest woman in the world. I grant that 
Sarah’s elaborate Monna Lisa smile, with the conscious 
droop of the eyelashes and the long carmined lips coyly 
disclosing the brilliant row of teeth, is effective of its 
kind — that it not only appeals to your susceptibili- 
ties, but positively jogs them. And it lasts quite a 
minute, sometimes longer. But Duse, with a tremor 
of the lip which you feel rather than see, and which 
lasts half an instant, touches you straight on the very 
heart; and there is not a line in the face, or a cold 
tone in the gray shadow that does not give poignancy 
to that tremor. As to youth and age, who can associ- 


188 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ate purity and delicacy of emotion, and simplicity of 
expression, with the sordid craft that repels us in age; 
or voluptuous appeal and egotistical self-insistence with 
the candor and generosity that attract us in youth? 
Who ever thinks of Potiphar’s wife as a young woman, 
or St. Elizabeth of Hungary as an old one? These 
associations are horribly unjust to age, and undeserved 
by youth: they belong of right to differences of char- 
acter, not of years; but they rule our imaginations; 
and the great artist profits by them to appear eter- 
nally young. However, it would be a critical blunder 
as well as a personal folly on my part to suggest that 
Duse, any more than Sarah Bernhardt, neglects any 
art that could heighten the effect of her acting when 
she is impersonating young and pretty women. The 
truth is that in the art of being beautiful, Madame 
Bernhardt is a child beside her. The French artist’s 
stock of attitudes and facial effects could be catalogued 
as easily as her stock of dramatic ideas: the counting 
would hardly go beyond the fingers of both hands. 
Duse produces the illusion of being infinite in variety 
of beautiful pose and motion. Every idea, every shade 
of thought and mood, expresses itself delicately but 
vividly to the eye; and yet, in an apparent million of 
changes and inflections, it is impossible to catch any line 
of an awkward angle, or any strain interfering with 
the perfect abandonment of all the limbs to what ap- 
pears to be their natural gravitation towards the finest 
grace. She is ambidextrous and supple, like a gym- 
nast or a panther; only the multitude of ideas which 
find physical expression in her movements are all of 
that high quality which marks off humanity from the 
animals, and, I fear I must add, from a good many 
gymnasts. When it is remembered that the majority 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 189 


of tragic actors excel only in explosions of those pas- 
sions which are common to man and brute, there will 
be no difficulty in understanding the indescribable dis- 
tinction which Duse’s acting acquires from the fact 
that behind every stroke of it is a distinctively human 
idea. In nothing is this more apparent than in the 
vigilance in her of that high human instinct which 
seeks to awaken the deepest responsive feeling without 
giving pain. In “La Dame aux Camellias,” for in- 
stance, 1t is easy for an intense actress to harrow us 
with her sorrows and paroxysms of phthisis, leaving 
us with a liberal pennyworth of sensation, not funda- 
mentally distinguishable from that offered by a public 
execution, or any other evil in which we still take a 
hideous delight. As different from this as light from 
darkness is the method of the actress who shows us how 
human sorrow can express itself only in its appeal for 
the sympathy it needs, whilst striving by strong endur- 
ance to shield others from the infection of its torment. 
That is the charm of Duse’s interpretation of the stage 
poem of Marguerite Gauthier. It is unspeakably touch- 
ing because it is exquisitely considerate: that is, ex- 
quisitely sympathetic. No physical charm is noble as 
well as beautiful unless it is the expression of a moral 
charm; and it is because Duse’s range includes these 
moral high notes, if I may so express myself, that her 
compass, extending from the depths of a mere preda- 
tory creature like Claude’s wife up to Marguerite 
Gauthier at her kindest or Magda at her bravest, so 
immeasurably dwarfs the poor little octave and a half 
on which Sarah Bernhardt plays such pretty canzonets 
and stirring marches. 

Obvious as the disparity of the two famous artists 
has been to many of us since we first saw Duse, I doubt 


140 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


whether any of us realized, after Madame Bernhardt’s 
very clever performance as Magda on Monday night, 
that there was room in the nature of things for its 
annihilation within forty-eight hours by so compara- 
tively quiet a talent as Duse’s. And yet annihilation 
is the only word for it. Sarah was very charming, 
very jolly when the sun shone, very petulant when the 
clouds covered it, and positively angry when they 
wanted to take her child away from her. And she did 
not trouble us with any fuss about the main theme of 
Sudermann’s play, the revolt of the modern woman 
against that ideal of home which exacts the sacrifice of 
her whole life to its care, not by her grace, and as its 
own sole help and refuge, but as a right which it has 
to the services of the females as abject slaves. In fact, 
there is not the slightest reason to suspect Madame 
Bernhardt of having discovered any such theme in the 
play; though Duse, with one look at Schwartze, the 
father, nailed it to the stage as the subject of the 
impending dramatic struggle before she had been five 
minutes on the scene. Before long, there came a stroke 
of acting which will probably never be forgotten by 
those who saw it, and which explained at once why 
those artifices of the dressing-table which help Madame 
Bernhardt would hinder Duse almost as much as a 
screen placed in front of her. I should explain, first, 
that the real name of the play is not * Magda” but 
“Home.” Magda is a daughter who has been turned 
out of doors for defying her father, one of those 
outrageous persons who mistake their desire to have 
everything their own way in the house for a sacred 
principle of home life. She has a hard time of it, but 
at last makes a success as an opera singer, though not 
until her lonely struggles have thrown her for sym- 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 141 


pathy on a fellow student, who in due time goes his 
way, and leaves her to face motherhood as best she 
can. In the fulness of her fame she returns to her 
native town, and in an attack of homesickness makes 
advances to her father, who consents to receive her 
again. No sooner is she installed in the house than 
she finds that one of the most intimate friends of the 
family is the father of her child. In the third act of 
the play she is on the stage when he is announced as 
a visitor. It must be admitted that Sarah Bernhardt 
played this scene very lightly and pleasantly: there 
was genuine good fellowship in the way in which she 
reassured the embarrassed gallant and made him under- 
stand that she was not going to play off the sorrows 
of Gretchen on him after all those years, and that she 
felt that she owed him the priceless experience of ma- 
ternity, even if she did not particularly respect him for 
it. Her self-possession at this point was immense: the 
peach-bloom never altered by a shade. Not so with 
Duse. The moment she read the card handed her by 
the servant, you realized what it was to have to face 
a meeting with the man. It was interesting to watch 
how she got through it when he came in, and how, on 
the whole, she got through it pretty well. He paid his 
compliments and offered his flowers; they sat down; 
and she evidently felt that she had got it safely over 
and might allow herself to think at her ease, and to 
look at him to see how much he had altered. Then a 
terrible thing happened to her. She began to blush; 
and in another moment she was conscious of it, and 
the blush was slowly spreading and deepening until, 
after a few vain efforts to avert her face or to obstruct 
his view of it without seeming to do so, she gave up and 
hid the blush in her hands. After that feat of acting 


142 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


I did not need to be told why Duse does not paint an 
inch thick. I could detect no trick in it: it seemed 
to me a perfectly genuine effect of the dramatic imagi- 
nation. In the third act of “ La Dame aux Camellias,” 
where she produces a touching effect by throwing her- 
self down, and presently rises with her face changed 
and flushed with weeping, the flush is secured by the 
preliminary plunge to a stooping attitude, imagination 
or no imagination; but Magda’s blush did not admit of 
that explanation; and I must confess to an intense 
professional curiosity as to whether it always comes 
spontaneously. 

I shall make no attempt to describe the rest of that 
unforgettable act. To say that it left the house not 
only frantically applauding, but actually roaring, 1s to 
say nothing; for had we not applauded Sarah as 
Gismonda and roared at Mrs. Patrick Campbell as 
Fedora? But there really was something to roar at 
this time. There was a real play, and an actress who 
understood the author and was a greater artist than he. 
And for me, at least, there was a confirmation of my 
sometimes flagging faith that a dramatic critic is really 
the servant of a high art, and not a mere advertiser of 
entertainments of questionable respectability of motive. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 143 


LA PRINCESSE LOINTAINE 


La Princesse Lointaine. By Edmond Rostand. Daly’s 
Theatre, 17 June, 1895. 


it always dies of the Unwomanly Woman. And 

M. Rostand’s “ Princess Far Away ” will die of 
Melissinde. A first act in which the men do nothing 
but describe their hysterical visions of a wonderful 
goddess-princess whom they have never seen is bad 
enough; but it 1s pardonable, because men do make 
fools of themselves about women, sometimes in an in- 
teresting and poetic fashion. But when the woman 
appears and plays up to the height of their folly, inton- 
ing her speeches to an accompaniment of harps and 
horns, distributing lilies and languors to pilgrims, and 
roses and raptures to troubadours, always in the char- 
acter which their ravings have ascribed to her, what 
can one feel except that an excellent opportunity for 
a good comedy is being thrown away? If Melissinde 
would only eat something, or speak in prose, or only 
swear in it, or do anything human — were it even smok- 
Ing a cigarette—to bring these silly Argonauts to 
their senses for a moment, one could forgive her. But 
she remains an unredcemed humbug from one end of 
the play to the other; and when, at the climax of one 
of her most deliberately piled-up theatrical entrances, 
a poor green mariner exclaims, with open-mouthed awe, 
““The Blessed Virgin!” it sends a twinge of frightful 
blasphemous irony down one’s spine. Having felt that, 
I now understand better than before why the Dulcinea 
episodes in “ Don Quixote” are so coarse in compari- 


ae romance of chivalry has its good points; but 


144, DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


son to the rest of the book. Cervantes had been driven 
into reactionary savagery by too much Melissinde. 

It is a pity that the part of M. Rostand’s play which 
deals with the shipful of enthusiasts did not get over 
the footlights better; for it is touched here and there 
with a certain modern freedom of spirit, and has some 
grace, youth, and imagination in it. But it lacks the 
force which comes from wisdom and originality. The 
prettiest descriptions of Melissinde are spoiled by the 
reflection — inevitable in an audience saturated with 
the Bernhardt tradition — that they are only leading 
up to the entrance of the star. Besides, they are in the 
verse of a rhythmless language. I know that many 
English people declare that they appreciate this verse ; 
and I know also that they sometimes follow up their 
declaration by asking you whether you pronounce 
Fédora as Fay’dera or Fido’ra, a question which no 
Frenchman could even understand. But to me French 
verse is simply not verse at all. I know it as a blind 
man knows color: that is, by the current explanations 
of it. When I read Alexandrines, I cook them, in spite 
of myself, so as to make them scan like the last line of 
a stanza in “ Childe Harold”: for instance, if I may 
illustrate by combining Rostand and Byron: 


“Te voyant accoutré d’une maniére telle, 
He rushed into the field, and, foremost fighting, fell, 
Pour porter monseigneur vers sa Dame Lointaine 
And fertilize the field that each pretends to gain.” 


This, I know, is deplorable; but it would be useless 
for me to attempt to conceal my hopeless deficiencies 
as a linguist. I am very sorry; but I cannot learn 
languages. I have tried hard, only to find that men 
of ordinary capacity can learn Sanscrit in less time 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 145 


than it takes me to buy a German dictionary. The 
worst of it is that this disability of mine seems to be 
most humiliatingly exceptional. My colleagues sit at 
French plays, German plays, and Italian plays, laugh- 
ing at all the jokes, thrilling with all the fine sentiments, 
and obviously understanding the finest shades of the 
language; whilst I, unless I have read the play before- 
hand, or asked somebody during the interval what it is 
about, must either struggle with a sixpenny “ synop- 
sis? which invariably misses the real point of the 
drama, or else sit with a guilty conscience and a blank 
countenance, drawing the most extravagantly wrong 
inferences from the dumb show of the piece. The tor- 
ture of this can only be adequately apprehended when 
it is considered that in ordinary novels, or plays, or 
conversations, the majority of sentences have no defi- 
nite meaning at all; and that an energetic intellectual 
effort to grapple with them, such as one makes in try- 
ing to understand a foreign language, would at once 
discover their inconclusiveness, inaccuracy, and empti- 
ness. When [ listen to an English play I am not 
troubled by not understanding when there is nothing 
to understand, because I understand at once that there 
is nothing to understand. But at a foreign play I do 
not understand this; and every sentence that means 
nothing in particular — say five out of six in the slacker 
moments of the action — seems to me to be a sentence 
of which I have missed the meaning through my un- 
happy and disgraceful ignorance of the language. 
Hence torments of shame and inefficiency, the betrayal 
of which would destroy my reputation as a critic at 
one blow. Of course I have a phrase or two ready 
at the end of my tongue to conceal my ignorance. 
My command of operatic Italian is almost copious, as 


146 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


might be expected from my experience as a musical 
critic. I can make love in Italian; I could challenge 
a foe to a duel in Italian if I were not afraid of him; 
and if I swallowed some agonizing mineral poison, I 
could describe my sensations very eloquently. And I 
could manage a prayer pretty well. But these accom- 
plishments are too special for modern comedy and ordi- 
nary conversation. As to French, I can neither speak 
it nor understand it when spoken without an impracti- 
cably long interval for reflection; and I am, besides, 
subject to a curious propensity, when addressed by 
Italian or French people, to reply in fluent German, 
though on all other occasions that language utterly 
bafiles me. On the whole, I come off best at the theatre 
in such a case as that of “ Magda,” where I began 
by reading the synopsis, then picked up a little of the 
play in French at Daly’s Theatre, then a little more in 
Italian at Drury Lane, then a little more in German 
from the book, and finally looked at Duse and was 
illuminated beyond all the powers of all the books and 
languages on earth. 

I may now return to M. Rostand’s play with an easy 
conscience, since I have made it plain that my sense 
that its versification is a drawback to it may be the 
effect of pure ignorance on my part. Certainly it made 
it verbose, and destroyed the illusion of the seafaring 
scenes by setting all the sailors monotonously bawling 
their phrases like street cries, in the manner of M. 
Mounet Sully and the Comédie Francaise, though of 
course they stopped short of the worst declamatory 
horrors of that institution. And in some subtle way, it 
led on the two troubadours, Joffroy Rudel and Ber- 
trand d’Allamanon, to make themselves ridiculous. 


About Joffroy (M. de Max) there was no mistake 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 147 


from the very beginning. As he lay moribund on his 
litter, his large dark eyes were fixed in profound pity 
for himself; and his lips were wreathed in a smile of 
ineffable complacency at the thought of how well his 
eyes looked. He smiled all poor M. Rostand’s poetry 
overboard within a minute of his entrance; and it 
then became a question whether Bertrand (M. Guitry) 
could raise it from the depths in the second and third 
acts, in which Joffroy does not appear. But though 
M. Guitry did not smile at all, being, in fact, as serious 
& man as any poet could desire, the audience laughed 
outright at Bertrand. In vain did Madame Bernhardt 
work up his entrance by tearing off her white sleeves 
and throwing them out of the window to him, enjoin- 
ing him to redden them in the gore of the gigantic 
green knight. In vain did he dash in spinning with 
the impetus of his charge, whirling his falchion in the 
air, and bearing on his brow a gash which suggested 
that the green knight, before succumbing, had sliced 
the top off his head like the lid of a saucepan. The 
audience only laughed. ‘They laughed again when he 
fainted; they shrieked when Sorismonde (the inevitable 
confidante) said “ He is better”; and they might 
have ended by laughing the piece off the stage had 
he not reminded Melissinde that she had no sleeves on, 
whereupon she became conscious of herself, and a blush- 
ing silence fell on the house. It was really not M. 
Guitry’s fault: for the life of me I cannot see what he 
could have done other than what he did; but I cannot 
pretend that I take a very severe view of the bad man- 
ners of the audience in laughing. However, his en- 
trance, like several of the exciting events on the ship 
in the first act, might have been better stage-managed. 
The great modern master of such effects is Richard 


148 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Wagner, with regard to whom the French nation is still 
in a comparatively benighted condition. The stage 
manager who wishes to work up the arrival of a cham- 
pion or the sighting of land from a ship had better go 
to Bayreuth and watch the first acts of “‘ Lohengrin ” 
and “ Tristan,” unless he is content to run the risk of 
making modern audiences laugh. But I do not think 
very much could be done with M. Rostand’s scene lead- 
ing up to Bertrand’s arrival in any case. Melissinde 
and Sorismonde describing the attack from the window 
— “Qh, quel superbe élan!”’ and so on —1s not to be 
compared either to Rebecca describing the onslaught 
of the black knight to Ivanhoe, or Klingsor’s running 
commentary to Kundry on the havoc made by Parsifal 
among the knights of the flower maidens. 

As to Madame Bernhardt’s own performance, it is 
not humanly possible for an actress to do very much 
with a play in which, when the other characters are 
not describing what a peerlessly beautiful and won- 
derful creature she is, she 1s herself on the stage ac- 
cepting that ridiculous position. But the moment 
Madame Bernhardt entered one very welcome reform 
was evident. ‘The elaborate make-up which I took the 
liberty of describing in some detail in my last article, 
and which made Gismonda and Magda so impossibly 
like goddesses in a Tiepolesque ceiling, had all but dis- 
appeared. Melissinde had a face, not a stucco mask: 
she was a real woman, not a hairdresser’s shop-window 
image. And what an improvement it was! How 
Madame Bernhardt can ever have supposed that her 
face is less interesting or attractive than the com- 
plexion which she carries in her dressing-bag, or that 
she has anything to gain by trying to make herself 
look like the silliest sort of lady of fashion, would be 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 149 


a mystery to me if it were not only too evident that she 
no longer brings to her art the immense pressure of 
thought and labor which earns for the greatest artists 
that rarest of all faiths, faith in their real selves. She 
looked much better; but there was very little thought, 
very little work, and consequently very little interest 
in her performance. Fortunately for her, she still has 
exceptional nervous power; and she has not altogether 
forgotten those situations in her old parts which re- 
peat themselves with more or less inessential modifica- 
tion in her new ones. This, to so clever a woman, with 
such a reputation, is enough to enable her to play the 
great actress still. But it should not satisfy London 
criticism. Take, for example, the end of the third act 
of this “ Princesse Lointaine,” which she selects as her 
opportunity for one of those displays of vehemence 
which are expected from her as part of the conventional 
Bernhardt exhibition. It is pure rant and nothing else. 
When once she begins to tear through her lines at the 
utmost pitch and power of her voice, she shows no fur- 
ther sense of what she is saying, and is unable to re- 
cover herself when, in the final speech, the feeling 
changes. As her physical endurance threatens to fail 
she tears along the faster, and finally rushes off the 
stage in a forced frenzy. I do not deny that there is 
something very exciting in a blind whirlwind of roar- 
ing energy. I have seen a working-class audience 
spring to their feet and cheer madly for three minutes 
at it. But then the artist was Mr. John Burns, who 
can give Madame Bernhardt a start of several miles 
at that particular sort of effect, and beat her easily. 
And I am bound to say, in justice to Mr. Burns, that 
I have never seen him bring down the curtain in this 
fashion until the play was really over, or substitute the 


150 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


peroration for the business part of the speech, whereas 
Madame Bernhardt does deliberately substitute rant 
for the business of the play. Again, Mr. Burns does 
it to amuse an election meeting of workingmen who 
are tired of sitting still: he does not offer it as serious 
political oratory in the House of Commons. I need 
hardly say that it is not the sort of effect that im- 
proves as the artist grows older, since it can only be 
produced by sustained physical violence. It is quite 
different from those effects which great players produce 
at a dramatic climax by working up the scene, through 
sheer force of acting, to the pitch at which, when the 
crucial moment comes, the effect makes itself, the 
artist’s work being then over, though the audience is 
persuaded that some stupendous magnetic explosion 
has taken place. No doubt some of my readers have 
witnessed that scene in which Queen Elizabeth and her 
court seemed to vanish miraculously from the stage, 
apparently swept into nothingness when Ristori let 
loose her wrath as Marie Stuart; or they may have seen 
the same effect produced by Salvini when the king 
flies in disorder from the play scene in “ Hamlet.” 
But it is only the critic, watching and listening with 
the same intensity with which the performer acts, who, 
when asked what extraordinary thing Ristori or Salvini 
did at that supreme moment to work such a miracle, 
is able to reply that they did nothing. Elizabeth and 
Claudius ran off the stage with their courts after 
them: that was all. Ristori and Salvini simply looked 
on, having already wrought the scene to the point at 
which the flight of the rest produced the necessary 
effect on the imagination of the audience. I need hardly 
refer again to the effect made last week by the third act 
of Sudermann’s “ Home,” as Duse played it. I only 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 151 


ask any one who saw that performance to try to imag- 
ine —if he has the heart to do it — such an artistic 
scandal as that great actress suddenly throwing her 
part to the winds and substituting for it a good two 
minutes’ rant, like the finish to the third act of “ La 
Princesse Lointaine.”” ‘The public should learn to dis- 
tinguish in these matters consciously as well as uncon- 
sciously. Ranting is not, as it is generally assumed 
to be, bad acting. It is not acting at all, but the intro- 
duction of an exhibition of force for the sake of force. 
And let us not affect to deny that when the performer 
has strength enough to raise the pressure to hurri- 
cane pitch, a successful rant is attractive and exciting, 
provided only the performer is clearly doing it on pur- 
pose, and is not an epileptic or a lunatic. But it takes 
not only purpose but reason to humanize force and 
raise it to the rank of a factor in fine art. It is the 
strength that 1s completely controlled and utilized that 
takes the crown: it is your Ristori, your Salvini, your 
Duse, with their unfailing hold and yet exquisitely 
delicate touch upon their parts, their sleeplessly vigi- 
lant sense of beauty of thought, feeling, and action, 
and their prodigious industry, that are recognized as 
the real athletes of the stage, compared with whom the 
ranters are weaklings and sluggards. That, at least, 
must be the judgment of London. Artists of interna- 
tional fame do not come to this capital of the world for 
money, but for reputation; and the London critic 
should be jealous above all things of letting that repu- 
tation go cheaply. When Duse gives us her best work, 
we cannot be too emphatic in declaring that it is 
best of the best and magnificent; so that our hall-mark 
may be carried through the nations on a piece of ster- 
ling gold. But when Madame Bernhardt gives us pinch- 


152 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


beck plays and acting that is poor in thought and lazily 
eked out with odds and ends stripped from her old 
parts; when she rants at us and brings down the house 
in a London theatre just as she brings it down in a 
provincial American one, we must tell her that she can 
do better than that, and that we will have nothing less 
than her best. When she offers us her reputation in- 
stead of first-rate acting, we must reply that we give 
reputations instead of taking them, and that we accept 
nothing in exchange except first-rate acting down on 
the counter, without a moment’s credit. Already there 
are signs that she is waking up to the situation. The 
failure of Gismonda to elicit any expression of the 
deep respect which really fine work imposes, even on 
those who prefer something cheaper; the sudden and 
complete obliteration of her Magda by Duse’s first five 
minutes in the part; the fatal compliments by which 
her most enthusiastic champions have exposed the com- 
monness and obviousness of the intellectual material of 
her acting: something of all this may have penetrated 
to her through the barrier of language and the incense- 
clouds of flattery; for it looked as if on Monday the 
disappearance of the Gismonda make-up were only a 
symptom of a more serious attitude towards London. 
I suggest, now, that the rant should be discarded as 
well, and replaced by a genuine study and interpreta- 
tion of the passages which are sacrificed to it. I fur- 
ther suggest, as a musical critic, that the shallow trick 
of intoning which sets so many of my musically neg- 
lected colleagues babbling about the “ golden voice ” 
should be discarded too. Miss Rehan, who is coming 
next week, will expose the musical emptiness of Madame 
Bernhardt’s habit of monotonously chanting sentences 
on one note, as effectually as Duse has exposed the in- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 158 


tellectual emptiness of her Magda. Of course, intoning 
is easy —as easy as holding down one key of an ac- 
cordion and keeping up a mellifluous smile all the time; 
but it dehumanizes speech, and after some minutes be- 
comes maddening, so that a flash of fun or a burst of 
rage is doubly welcome because it for a moment alters 
that eternal pitch and timbre. Some critics speak of 
“ the melody ” of it, as to which I can only say that 
the man who finds melody in one sustained note would 
find exquisite curves in a packing case. I therefore re- 
spectfully urge Madame Bernhardt to add a complete 
set of strings to her lyre before Miss Rehan comes. 
Otherwise there will be fresh comparisons of the most 
disparaging kind. 


MR. DALY FOSSILIZES 


The Railroad of Love: a comedy in four acts. Adapted 
by Augustin Daly from the German of Frau von 
Schénthan. Daly’s Theatre, 25 June, 1895. 


rica! And Mr. Augustin Daly again! What is 

to be done with Mr. Daly? How shall we open 
his mind to the fact that he stands on the brink of the 
twentieth century mn London and not with Mr. Vincent 
Crummles at Portsmouth in the early Dickens days? I 
have in my hand the programme of last Tuesday’s per- 
formance. One character is described as “ a polished 
relic of wasted energies,” another as “ not half a bad 
sort of parent, and an excellent judge—of Latour 
70.” A lady is catalogued as “‘ a goldfish of much ex- 


Vi another foreign language — that of Amur- 


154 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


perience — not to be caught on the fly.” This pro- 
gramme measures twenty-one inches by seven and a 
quarter, and the decorative printing 1s in blue ink. Why 
is it not printed on tissue paper; why does not the blue 
come off on my fingers; why did I not buy it from an 
orange seller outside the theatre? Not, I am sure, 
from any desire on Mr. Daly’s part to break with the 
tradition of my boyhood, but doubtless because the 
manufacture of the old playbill is a lost art here. I 
picture Mr. Daly, vainly searching London for that 
particular sort of tissue paper and that crayon-like 
blue ink, trembling lest the public should think him 
outlandish and unprofessional without them. Bless 
your imnocence, dear Mr. Daly, such things have not 
been known in London for so long that I am regarded 
as an old fogy because they were once familiar to me. 
As for the facetious comments on the characters, they 
linger, perhaps, in pantomime season, when the clock 
goes back fifty years by general consent; but at a 
West End theatre at the end of June we stare at them 
in polite amazement as we did at the Strand theatre 
years ago, when you first came over and bereaved us 
of breath by ending up each act of your comedies by 
a harlequinade rally in which negro servants entered 
and upset each other over the furniture. 

Things have changed in many respects since those 
old days at the Strand. Mr. Daly, the lessee of one 
of the handsomest of our London theatres, is in quite 
a different position to Mr. Daly the manager of an 
American company making a holiday experiment in a 
house not associated with dramatic work of the finest 
class. Furthermore, our standard of fineness in dra- 
matic work has gone up since then. The German senti- 
mental farce in several acts, Americanized by Mr. Daly, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS _ 155 


was natural, frank, amusing, and positively lifelike in 
comparison with the plays which were regarded as dra- 
matic masterpieces in the eighties. ‘“‘ Diplomacy ” and 
* Peril,” “ Clancarty ” and “ Still Waters Run Deep,” 
* Our Boys,” “ New Men and Old Acres,” and, by way 
of advanced psychological drama dealing with the ques- 
tion of the sexes, “ Forget-me-not,” went not an inch 
deeper into life than Mr. Daly’s adaptations, and 
were, on the whole, less genial and worse acted. Mrs. 
Gilbert and Miss Rehan, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Drew, 
were individually quite equal to their most formidable 
competitors in the days when Mrs. and Mr. Kendal 
were at the height of their popularity; and the combi- 
nation of the four in one company was irresistible. 

I wonder how far Mr. Daly realizes how completely 
that state of things has gone by. When Mr. Char- 
rington produced Ibsen’s “ Doll’s House ” at the Roy- 
alty in 1889, he smashed up the British drama of the 
eighties. Not that the public liked Ibsen: he was infi- 
nitely too good for that. But the practical business 
point is not how people liked Ibsen, but how they 
liked Byron, Sardou, and Tom Taylor after Ibsen. 
And that is the point that our managers miss. It seems 
easy to count the money that the public paid to see 
** A Doll’s House,” and the money it paid to see 
‘** Diplomacy,” and to conclude from the huge excess 
of the latter sum that there is more money in Sardou 
than in Ibsen. But when Mr. Comyns Carr proceeds 
to apply this conclusion by producing Sardou’s “ Delia 
Harding,” after nine plays of Ibsen’s had been seen in 
London, he finds it received with open derision, and 
with such slender pecuniary results that it would have 
paid him better to produce even “ Emperor or Gali- 
lean,” the most impossible, commercially speaking, of 


156 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


all Ibsen’s works. That does not prove, however, that 
the substitution of Ibsen for Sardou is the worldly wise 
course for the manager, since Ibsen’s work is much 
further above the public capacity than Sardou’s is be- 
low it. What the manager has to do is to measure as 
exactly as possible the effect on public taste produced 
by the series of artistic experiments, by the Independent 
Theatre Society and others, included between Mr. Char- 
rington’s production of “ A Doll’s House ” and that of 
“Arms and the Man ” at the Avenue Theatre last year. 
Never mind whether these experiments were pecuniary 
successes or not: the question is how far they altered 
the fashion in pecuniarily successful pieces. A glance 
at the contemporary stage shows the difference. Com- 
pare “Lady Windermere’s Fan,” “The Second Mrs. 
Tanqueray,” and “The Case of Rebellious Susan ” 
with the repertory whose gems, from the box-office 
point of view, were “ The Ironmaster ” and “ A Scrap 
of Paper,” not to repeat my former instances! The 
change is evident at once. In short, a modern manager 
need not produce “ The Wild Duck”; but he must be 
very careful not to produce a play which will seem in- 
sipid and old-fashioned to playgoers who have seen 
‘The Wild Duck,” even though they may have hissed it. 

This is the lesson that Mr. Daly has not learnt. 
When he first came, there was nothing more old-fash- 
ioned about his productions than the archaic playbills, 
the horseplay at the ends of the acts, and the doggerel 
tags before the final curtain. But nowadays the plays 
themselves are old-fashioned with the most dangerous 
sort of old-fashionedness: that is, they are ten years 
out of date, whereas the playbill smartnesses and the 
doggerel, being fifty years out of date, have a certain 
rococo quaintness about them which appeals to our in- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 157 


dulgence. All that can be said for “ The Railroad of 
Love”? now is that it is not an absolute outrage on 
the public and on Miss Rehan’s genius, as “ Dollars 
and Cents ” was, and that in the third act the part of 
Valentine Osprey can still be raised, by a rapture of 
over-acting on Miss Rehan’s part, to the point of 
rescuing the play from utter impossibility. But that 
terrible milliterry lewt’nent, with his company manners, 
his badinage and repartee, and his dashing manner of 
chucking the parlor-maid under the chin, is hard to 
bear, especially now that Mr. Drew has left the com- 
pany, and no successor can be found with his grace of 
style and his apologetic humor. And then the fathers, 
with their interminable “ preeliminerries ” and expla- 
nations! Except when Miss Rehan or Mr. Lewis or 
Mrs. Gilbert is on the stage the play is hardly tolerable 
— the less so because Mr. Daly’s stage management is 
of the most fatal kind, being founded throughout on a 
boyish sense of fun instead of on a sense of comedy 
and character. What he calls acting I should call 
larking. For example, the part of Benny Demaresq, 
described in the bill as “ condemned by the judge and 
waiting sentence from the judge’s daughter,” 1s taken 
by an actor who, though young and not as yet very 
proficient, could quite easily do himself credit in the 
part under artistic guidance. But he has been appar- 
ently encouraged to set about it in the broadly bur- 
lesqued, rough-and-ready, physically violent style of the 
circus. We do not accept that sort of thing in first- 
rate theatres in London; and when Mr. Otis Skinner 
made the part agreeable years ago he did it by making 
the least, and not the most, of the tomfoolery (the 
expression is really unavoidable) laid out for him. The 
same criticism, in a greater or less degree, applies to all 


158 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


those members of the company who do not know their 
business better than Mr. Daly does. The comic negro 
servant and the parlor-maid who flirts with the visitors 
discharge their duty of destroying the illusion without 
adding to the entertainment, with the fellest efficiency, 
and, I doubt not, with the warmest approval of the man- 
ager. The whole atmosphere of the play is one of stale 
pleasantry of a kind for which we are not just now in 
the humor. 

As to Miss Rehan, without whom the performance 
would be a hopeless failure, I should prefer to speak 
more fully of her when we have seen the play which 
Mr. Daly has founded on Shakespeare’s “ Two Gentle- 
men of Verona” (for Mr. Daly shows himself a thor- 
ough disciple of the old school in his conviction that 
Shakespeare was a wretchedly unskilful dramatic au- 
thor). The scene of Valentine Osprey’s entrance and 
introduction to the milliterry hero is vulgar beyond 
redemption; and the vulgarity seems less excusable now 
than it did at the last performance seven years ago, 
when Miss Rehan’s personal charm was more capricious 
and youthful, and less earnest and womanly than it has 
since become. But the misgiving caused by this is only 
momentary. She soon shows that she 1s going to repeat 
her old feat in this play of seizing the author’s silly 
idea, sillily expressed, of a superlatively fascinating 
woman, and substituting for it her own sympathetic 
idea, beautifully expressed. It is true that as Miss 
Rehan’s style grows nobler, and takes her further away 
from the skittish hoyden of Mr. Daly’s dramatic imagi- 
nation, it becomes more and more obvious that the part 
she acts is not in the play; but the moment you hear 
her deliver such lines as “ Did you squander it? ” — 
referring to the milliterry gentleman’s heart — you see 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 159 


that she will extract enough feelmg from Frau Schén- 
than’s German sentiment and her adapter’s Irish blar- 
ney to maintain enough congruity between her Valentine 
Osprey and the author’s. 

The latest successor to Mr. Drew is Mr. Frank 
Worthing, who has good looks and a pleasant address 
without much grip or individual style. Perhaps, how- 
ever, it is unfair to speak of want of grip when there 
is so little to get hold of. Mr. Drew always played 
these parts with a cold reserve of insincerity under a 
pretty varnish of drollery. This was not only amusing 
in itself, but saved your respect for him by suggesting 
that he thoroughly despised the heroes he represented. 
Mr. Worthing takes Lieutenant Everett seriously ; and 
the part rather breaks down under the treatment. 

It is not just now enlightened critical policy to pay 
Mr. Daly compliments. In spite of the effort he made 
some time ago to get abreast of the modern movement 
by giving Mr. Burnand a commission to write a comedy 
with puns in it, he remains behind the times; and the 
humane course is to make him aware that unless he 
realizes that the public at present wishes to forget 
everything he has ever learnt, and will be only too glad 
if he forgets it too, he will risk being classed with those 
managers who are fit for nothing but to be stuffed and 
mounted under glass to adorn the staircase of the Gar- 
rick Club. For various reasons, this would be a pity. 
His company, his enterprise, his theatre are all excep- 
tionally interesting; so that he could pursue a forward 
policy with the utmost advantage. Miss Rehan is a 
treasure too costly to be wasted on stale farce and old- 
world rhetorical drama. And Mr. Daly is virtually 
the only manager left us who is not an actor-manager, 
except Mr. Comyns Carr, since Messrs. Gatti and Sir 


160 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Augustus Harris deal only in popular melodrama and 
in opera. It remains to be seen whether he can get 
sufficiently into touch with the present decade to take 
advantage of all these opportunities. For the last few 
years he has been playing the part of Rip Van Winkle; 
and I submit to him that he had better leave that to 
Mr. Jefferson. 


POOR SHAKESPEARE! 


The Two Gentlemen of Verona. Daly's Theatre, 2 
July, 1895. 


. piece founded by Augustin Daly on Shake- 


speare’s “ Two Gentlemen of Verona,” to which 

I looked forward last week, is not exactly a 
comic opera, though there is plenty of music in it, and 
not exactly a serpentine dance, though it proceeds 
under a play of changing colored lights. It is some- 
thing more old-fashioned than either: to wit, a vaude- 
ville. And let me hasten to admit that it makes a very 
pleasant entertainment for those who know no better. 
Even I, who know a great deal better, as I shall pres- 
ently demonstrate rather severely, enjoyed myself tol- 
erably. I cannot feel harshly towards a gentleman who 
works so hard as Mr. Daly does to make Shakespeare 
presentable: one feels that he loves the bard, and lets 
him have his way as far as he thinks it good for him. 
His rearrangement of the scenes of the first two acts 1s 
just like him. Shakespeare shows lucidly how Proteus 
lives with his father (Antonio) in Verona, and loves a 
lady of that city named Julia. Mr. Daly, by taking 
the scene in Julia’s house between Julia and her maid, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 161 


and the scene in Antonio’s house between Antonio and 
Proteus, and making them into one scene, convinces the 
unlettered audience that Proteus and Julia live in the 
same house with their father Antonio. Further, Shake- 
speare shows us how Valentine, the other gentleman of 
Verona, travels from Verona to Milan, the journey be- 
ing driven into our heads by a comic scene in Verona, 
in which Valentine’s servant is overwhelmed with grief 
at leaving his parents, and with indignation at the in- 
sensibility of his dog to his sorrow, followed presently 
by another comic scene in Milan in which the same 
servant is welcomed to the strange city by a fellow- 
servant. Mr. Daly, however, is ready for Shakespeare 
on this point too. He just represents the two scenes as 
occurring in the same place; and immediately the puzzle 
as to who is who is complicated by a puzzle as to where 
is where. Thus is the immortal William adapted to 
the requirements of a nineteenth-century audience. 

In preparing the text of his version Mr. Daly has 
proceeded on the usual principles, altering, transposing, 
omitting, improving, correcting, and_ transferring 
speeches from one character to another. Many of 
Shakespeare’s lines are mere poetry, not to the point, 
not getting the play along, evidently stuck in because 
the poet liked to spread himself in verse. On all such 
unbusinesslike superfluities Mr. Daly is down with his 
blue pencil. For instance, he relieves us of such stuff 
as the following, which merely conveys that Valentine 
loves Silvia, a fact already sufficiently established by 
the previous dialogue: 


‘My thoughts do harbor with my Silvia nightly ; 
And slaves they are to me, that send them flying: 
Oh, could their master come and go as lightly, 
Himself would lodge where senseless they are lying. 


162 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them, 
While I, their king, that thither them importune, 

Do curse the grace that with such grace hath blessed them, 
Because myself do want my servant's fortune. 

I curse myself, for they are sent by me, 
That they should harbor where their lord would be.” 


Slaves indeed are these lines and their like to Mr. Daly, 
who “ sends them flying ” without remorse. But when 
he comes to passages that a stage manager can under- 
stand, his reverence for the bard knows no bounds. 
The following awkward lines, unnecessary as they are 
under modern stage conditions, are at any rate not 
poetic, and are in the nature of police news. There- 
fore they are piously retained. 


“What halloing, and what stir, is this to-day? 
These are my mates, that make their wills their law, 
Have some unhappy passenger in chase. 
They love me well; yet I have much to do, 
To keep them from uncivil outrages. 
Withdraw thee, Valentine: who’s this comes here? ” 


The perfunctory metrical character of such lines only 
makes them more ridiculous than they would be in 
prose. I would cut them out without remorse to make 
room for all the lines that have nothing to justify 
their existence except their poetry, their humor, their 
touches of character —in short, the lines for whose 
sake the play survives, just as it was for their sake 
it originally came into existence. Mr. Daly, who pre- 
fers the lines which only exist for the sake of the play, 
will doubtless think me as great a fool as Shakespeare ; 
but I submit to him, without disputing his judgment, 
that he is, after all, only a man with a theory of dra- 
matic composition, going with a blue pencil over the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 1638 


work of a great dramatist, and striking out everything 
that does not fit his theory. Now, as it happens, no- 
body cares about Mr. Daly’s theory; whilst everybody 
who pays to see what is, after all, advertised as a 
performance of Shakespeare’s play entitled “ The Two 
Gentlemen of Verona,” and not as a demonstration of 
Mr. Daly’s theory, does care more or less about the art 
of Shakespeare. Why not give them what they ask for, 
instead of going to great trouble and expense to give 
them something else? 

In those matters in which Mr. Daly has given the 
rein to his own taste and fancy: that is to say, in 
scenery, costumes, and music, he is for the most part 
disabled by a want of real knowledge of the arts con- 
cerned. I say for the most part, because his pretty 
fifteenth-century dresses, though probably inspired 
rather by Sir Frederic Leighton than by Benozzo 
Gozzoli, may pass. But the scenery is insufferable. 
First, for “a street in Verona” we get a Bath bun 
colored operatic front cloth with about as much light 
in it as there is in a studio in Fitzjohn’s Avenue in 
the middle of October. I respectfully invite Mr. Daly 
to spend his next holiday looking at a real street in 
Verona, asking his conscience meanwhile whether a man- 
ager with eyes in his head and the electric light at his 
disposal could not advance a step on the Telbin (senior) 
style. Telbin was an admirable scene painter; but he 
was limited by the mechanical conditions of gas illumi- 
nation; and he learnt his technique before the great ad- 
vance made during the Impressionist movement in the 
painting of open-air effects, especially of brilliant sun- 
light. Of that advance Mr. Daly has apparently no 
conception. The days of Macready and Clarkson Stan- 
field still exist for him; he would probably prefer a 


164 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


watercolor drawing of a foreign street by Samuel Prout 
to one by Mr. T. M. Rooke; and I dare say every relic 
of the original tallow candlelight that still clings to the 
art of scene-painting 1s as dear to him as it is to most 
old playgoers, including, unhappily, many of the critics. 

As to the elaborate set in which Julia makes her 
first entrance, a glance at it shows how far Mr. Daly 
prefers the Marble Arch to the loggia of Orcagna. All 
over the scene we have Renaissance work, in its gen- 
teelest stages of decay, held up as the perfection of 
romantic elegance and beauty. The school that pro- 
duced the classicism of the First Empire, designed the 
terraces of Regent’s Park and the facades of Fitzroy 
Square, and conceived the Boboli Gardens and Ver- 
sailles as places for human beings to be happy in, 
ramps all over the scenery, and offers as much of its 
pet colonnades and statues as can be crammed into 
a single scene, by way of a compendium of everything 
that is lovely in the city of San Zeno and the tombs 
of the Scaligers. As to the natural objects depicted, 
I ask whether any man living has ever seen a pale green 
cypress in Verona or anywhere else out of a toy 
Noah’s Ark. A man who, having once seen cypresses 
and felt their presence in a north Italian landscape, 
paints them lettuce color, must be suffering either from 
madness, malice, or a theory of how nature should have 
colored trees, cognate with Mr. Daly’s theory of how 
Shakespeare should have written plays. 

Of the music let me speak compassionately. After 
all, it is only very lately that Mr. Arnold Dolmetsch, 
by playing fifteenth-century music on fifteenth-century 
instruments, has shown us that the age of beauty was 
true to itself in music as in pictures and armor and 
costumes. But what should Mr. Daly know of this, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 165 


educated as he no doubt was to believe that the court 
of Denmark should always enter in the first act of 
“Hamlet ” to the march from “ Judas Maccabzus ”’? 
Schubert’s setting of ‘* Who is Silvia? ” he knew, but 
had rashly used up in “ Twelfth Night ” as “ Who’s 
Olivia? ”? He has therefore had to fall back on another 
modern setting, almost supernaturally devoid of any 
particular merit. Besides this, all through the drama 
the most horribly common music repeatedly breaks out 
on the slightest pretext or on no pretext at all. One 
dance, set to a crude old English popular tune, sundry 
eighteenth and nineteenth-century musical banalities, 
and a titivated plantation melody in the first act which 
produces an indescribably atrocious effect by coming 
in behind the scenes as a sort of coda to Julia’s curtain 
speech, all turn the play, as I have said, into a vaude- 
ville. Needless to add, the accompaniments are not 
played on lutes and viols, but by the orchestra and a 
guitar or two. In the forest scene the outlaws begin 
to act by a chorus. After their encounter with Valen- 
tine they go off the stage singing the refrain exactly 
in the style of “La Fille de Madame Angot.” The 
wanton absurdity of introducing this comic opera con- 
vention is presently eclipsed by a thunderstorm, im- 
mediately after which Valentine enters and delivers his 
speech sitting down on a bank of moss, as an outlaw in 
tights naturally would after a terrific shower. Such is 
the effect of many years of theatrical management on 
the human brain. 

Perhaps the oddest remark I have to make about the 
performance is that, with all its glaring defects and 
blunders, it is rather a handsome and elaborate one as 
such things go. It is many years now since Mr. Ruskin 
first took the Academicians of his day aback by the 


166 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


obvious remark that Carpaccio and Giovanni Bellini 
were better painters than Domenichino and Salvator 
Rosa. Nobody dreams now of assuming that Pope was 
a greater poet than Chaucer, that “ Mozart’s Twelfth 
Mass” is superior to the masterpieces of Orlandus 
Lassus and Palestrina, or that our “ ecclesiastical 
Gothic ” architecture is more enlightened than Norman 
axe work. But the theatre is still wallowing in such 
follies; and until Mr. Comyns Carr and Sir Edward 
Burne-Jones, Baronet, put “ King Arthur” on the 
stage more or less in the manner natural to men who 
know these things, Mr. Daly might have pleaded the 
unbroken conservatism of the playhouse against me. 
But after the Lyceum scenery and architecture I de- 
cline to accept a relapse without protest. There is 
no reason why cheap photographs of Italian archi- 
tecture (six-pence apiece in infinite variety at the book- 
stall in the South Kensington Museum) should not res- 
cue us from Regent’s Park Renaissance colonnades on 
the stage just as the electric light can rescue us from 
Telbin’s dun-colored sunlight. The opera is the last 
place in the world where any wise man would look for 
adequate stage illusion; but the fact is that Mr. Daly, 
with all his colored lights, has not produced a single 
Italian scene comparable in illusion to that provided by 
Sir Augustus Harris at Covent Garden for ‘ Caval- 
leria Rusticana.” 

Of the acting I have not much to say. Miss Rehan 
provided a strong argument in favor of rational dress 
by looking much better in her page’s costume than in 
that of her own sex; and in the serenade scene, and 
that of the wooing of Silvia for Proteus, she stirred 
some feeling into the part, and reminded us of what she 
was in “ Twelfth Night,” where the same situations are 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 167 


fully worked out. For the rest, she moved and spoke 
with imposing rhythmic grace. That is as much notice 
as so cheap a part as Julia is worth from an artist 
who, being absolute mistress of the situation at Daly’s 
Theatre, might and should have played Imogen for us 
mstead. ‘The two gentlemen were impersonated by Mr. 
Worthing and Mr. Craig. Mr. Worthing charged him- 
self with feeling without any particular reference to 
his lines; and Mr. Craig struck a balance by attending 
to the meaning of his speeches without taking them at 
all to heart. Mr. Clarke, as the Duke, was emphatic, 
and worked up every long speech to a climax in the use- 
ful old style; but his tone is harsh, his touch on his 
consonants coarse, and his accent ugly, all fatal dis- 
qualifications for the delivery of Shakespearean verse. 
The scenes between Launce and his dog brought out the 
latent silliness and childishness of the audience as 
Shakespeare’s clowning scenes always do: I laugh at 
them like a yokel myself. Mr. Lewis hardly made the 
most of them. His style has been formed in modern 
comedies, where the locutions are so familiar that their 
meaning is in no danger of being lost by the rapidity 
of his quaint utterance; but Launce’s phraseology is 
another matter: a few of the funniest lines missed fire 
because the audience did not catch them. And with all 
possible allowance for Mr. Daly’s blue pencil, I cannot 
help suspecting that Mr. Lewis’s memory was respon- 
sible for one or two of his omissions. Still, Mr. Lewis 
has always his comic force, whether he makes the most 
or the least of it; so that he cannot fail in such a part 
as Launce. Miss Maxine Elliot’s Silvia was the most 
considerable performance after Miss Rehan’s Julia. 
The whole company will gain by the substitution on 
Tuesday next of a much better play, “ A Midsummer 


168 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Night’s Dream,” as a basis for Mr. Daly’s operations. 
No doubt he is at this moment, like Mrs. Todgers, “a 
dodgin’ among the tender bits with a fork, and an 
eatin’ of °em’”’; but there is sure to be cnough of the 
original left here and there to repay a visit. 


TOUJOURS DALY 


Madame Sans-Géne. Garrick Theatre, 8 July, 1895. 
A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Daly’s Theatre, 9 
July, 1895. 


EFORE Madame Sans-Géne I think it best to re- 
BR tire in good order without committing myself. 

I have never seen a French play of which I under- 
stood less; and that, for me, is saying a good deal. 
Many of the sallies of Rejane which provoke the loud- 
est laughter are just those which escape me. Napoleon 
is an inscrutable person, as becomes the Man of 
Destiny. I do not catch a solitary word he says, no 
doubt because of his Corsican accent. With the rest 
I can pick my way along sufficiently to be almost as 
much bored as if the play were in English. Surely 
the twenty minutes or so of amusement contained in 
the play might be purchased a little more cheaply than 
by the endurance of a huge mock historic melodrama 
which never for a moment produces the faintest con- 
viction, and which involves the exhibition of elaborate 
Empire interiors requiring half an hour between the 
acts to set, and not worth looking at when they are 
set. Of course I admire the ingenuity with which Sar- 
dou carries out his principle of combining the maximum 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS _ 169 


of expenditure and idle chatter with the minimum of 
drama; but I have admired that so often that it is 
beginning to pall on me. And I think something better 
could be done with Rejane’s talent than this business, 
funny as it is for once in a way, of playing the washer- 
woman like a real duchess and the duchess like a stage 
washerwoman. Rejane, to say the least, is not exacting 
as to the quality of her parts provided they are popu- 
lar; and it rests with the dramatists to make the best 
or worst of her. How Sardou proceeds when he has 
carte blanche in that way may be learnt from the pages 
of the Sardou-Bernhardt repertory — though please 
observe that I do not imply that he ever makes the 
worst of anything; because to go to that extreme re- 
quires a good deal of conviction, which is just the sort 
of force that he lacks. I can no more believe in Madame 
Sans-Géne than in Theodora or La Tosca, She is more 
amusing: that is all. 

* The Two Gentlemen of Verona ” has been succeeded 
at Daly’s Theatre by “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” 
Mr. Daly is in great form. In my last article I was 
rash enough to hint that he had not quite realized what 
could be done with electric lighting on the stage. He 
triumphantly answers me by fitting up all his fairies 
with portable batteries and incandescent lights, which 
they switch on and off from time to time, like children 
with a new toy. He has trained Miss Lillian Swain in 
the part of Puck until it is safe to say that she does 
not take one step, strike one attitude, or modify her 
voice by a single inflection that is not violently, wan- 
tonly, and ridiculously wrong and absurd. Instead of 
being mercurial, she poses academically, like a cheap 
Italian statuette; instead of being impish and childish, 
she is elegant and affected; she laughs a solemn, meas- 


170 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ured laugh, like a heavy German Zamiel; she an- 
nounces her ability to girdle the earth in forty minutes 
in the attitude of a professional skater, and then be- 
gins the journey awkwardly in a swing, which takes her 
in the opposite direction to that in which she indicated 
her intention of going: in short, she illustrates every 
folly and superstition that still clings round what Mr. 
Daly no doubt calls “ the legitimate.” Another stroke 
of his is to make Oberon a woman. It must not be 
supposed that he does this solely because it is wrong, 
though there is no other reason apparent. He does it 
partly because he was brought up to do such things, 
and partly because they seem to him to be a tribute 
to Shakespeare’s greatness, which, being uncommon, 
ought not to be interpreted according to the dictates 
of common sense. A female Oberon and a Puck who 
behaves like a pageboy earnestly training himself for 
the post of footman recommend themselves to him be- 
cause they totally destroy the naturalness of the repre- 
sentation, and so accord with his conception of the 
Shakespearean drama as the most artificial of all forms 
of stage entertainment. That is how you find out the 
man who is not an artist. Verse, music, the beauties of 
dress, gesture, and movement are to him interesting 
aberrations instead of being the natural expression 
which human feeling seeks at a certain degree of deli- 
cacy and intensity. He regards art as a quaint and 
costly ring in the nose of Nature. I am loth to say 
that Mr. Daly is such a man; but after studying all his 
Shakespearean revivals with the thirstiest desire to find 
as much art as possible in them, I must mournfully con- 
fess that the only idea I can sce in them is the idea of 
titivation. As to his slaughterings of the text, how can 
one help feeling them acutely in a play like “ A Mid- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 171 


summer Night’s Dream ” in which Shakespeare, having 
to bring Nature in its most enchanting aspect before an 
audience without the help of theatrical scenery, used all 
his power of description and expression in verse with 
such effect that the utmost any scene-painter can hope 
for is to produce a picture that shall not bitterly disap- 
point the spectator who has read the play beforehand? 
Mr. Daly is, I should say, one of those people who are 
unable to conceive that there could have been any illu- 
sion at all about the play before scenery was intro- 
duced. He certainly has no suspicion of the fact that 
every accessory he employs is brought in at the dead- 
liest risk of destroying the magic spell woven by the 
poet. He swings Puck away on a clumsy trapeze with 
a ridiculous clash of the cymbals in the orchestra, in 
the fullest belief that he is thereby completing instead 
of destroying the effect of Puck’s lines. His “ pano- 
ramic illusion of the passage of Theseus’s barge to 
Athens ” is more absurd than anything that occurs in 
the tragedy of Pyramus and Thisbe in the last act. 
The stage management blunders again and again 
through feeble imaginative realization of the circum- 
stances of the drama. In the first act it should be 
clear to any stage manager that Lysander’s speech, 
beginning “I am, my lord, as well derived as he,” 
should be spoken privately and not publicly to Theseus. 
In the rehearsal scene in the wood, Titania should not 
be conspicuously exhibited under a limelight in the very 
centre of the stage, where the clowns have, in defiance 
of all common sanity, to pretend not to see her. We 
are expected, no doubt, to assume that she is invisible 
because she is a fairy, though Bottom’s conversation 
with her when she wakes and addresses him flatly con- 
tradicts that hypothesis. In the fourth act, Theseus 


172 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


has to enter from his barge down a bank, picking his 
way through the sleeping Lysander and Hermia, 
Demetrius and Helena. ‘The four lions in Trafalgar 
Square are not more conspicuous and unoverlookable 
than these four figures are. Yet Theseus has to make 
all his hunting speeches in an impossible unconscious- 
ness of them, and then to look at them amazedly and 
exclaim, “‘ But soft, what nymphs are these? ” as if he 
could in any extremity of absence of mind have missed 
seeing them all along. Most of these absurdities are 
part of a systematic policy of sacrificing the credibility 
of the play to the chance of exhibiting an effective 
*‘ living picture.” 

I very soon gave up the attempt to keep a record 
of the outrages practised by Mr. Daly on the text. 
Every one knows the lines: 


“I swear to thee by Cupid’s strongest bow, 
By his best arrow with the golden head, 
By the simplicity of Venus’ doves, 
By that whieh knitteth souls and prospers loves,” ete. 


Mr. Daly’s powerful mind perceived at a glance that 
the second and third lines are superfluous, as their 
omission does not destroy the sense of the passage. 
He accordingly omitted them. In the same seene, 
Shakespeare makes the two-star-erossed lovers speak 
in alternate lines with an effect which sets the whole 
seene throbbing with their absorption in one another: 


“LysanpEer: The course of true love never did run smooth. 
But either it was different in blood — 
Hermia: O eross! too high to be enthralled to low! 
Lysanper: Or else misgraffed in respect of years, 
Hernia: O spite! too old to be engaged to young! 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 173 


LysaNnper: Or else it stood upon the choice of friends, 

Hermia: O hell! to choose love by another’s eye! 

Lysanper: Or if there were a sympathy in choice, 
War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it,” etc. 


With a Hermia who knew how to breathe out these 
parentheses, the duet would be an exquisite one; but 
Mr. Daly, shocked, as an American and an Irishman, 
at a young lady using such an expression as “ Oh hell! ” 
cuts out the whole antiphony, and leaves Lysander to 
deliver a long lecture without interruption from the 
lady. At such moments, the episode of the ass’s head 
rises to the dignity of allegory. From any other man- 
ager I should accept the excuse that the effects of 
verse for which I am pleading require a virtuosity of 
delivery on the part of the actor which is practically 
not to be had at present. But Mr. Daly has Miss 
Rehan, who is specially famous for just this virtuosity 
of speech; and yet her lines are treated just as the 
others are. The fact is, beautiful elocution is rare be- 
cause the managers have no ears. 

The play, though of course very poorly spoken in 
comparison with how it ought to be spoken, is tolerably 
acted. Mr. George Clarke, clad in the armor of Alci- 
biades and the red silk gown of Charley’s Aunt, articu- 
lates most industriously, and waves his arms and flexes 
his wrists in strict accordance, not for a moment with 
the poetry, but with those laws of dramatic elocution 
and gesture which veteran actors are always willing 
to impart to novices at a reasonable price per dozen 
lessons. Mr. Lewis as Bottom is not as funny as his 
part, whereas in modern plays he is always funnier 
than his part. He seemed to me to miss the stolid, 
obstinate, self-sufficient temperament of Bottom alto- 
gether. There is a definite conception of some par- 


174 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ticular sort of man at the back of all Shakespeare’s 
characters. The quantity of fun to be got out of 
Bottom and Autolycus, for instance, is about the same; 
but underneath the fun there are two widely different 
persons, of types still extant and familiar. Mr. Lewis 
would be as funny in Autolycus as he is in Bottom; 
but he would be exactly the same man in both parts. 

As to Miss Rehan, her scenes in the wood with 
Demetrius were very fine, although, in the passage 
where Hermia frightens her, she condescended to ar- 
rant clowning. Her treatment of Shakespearean verse 
is delightful after the mechanical intoning of Sarah 
Bernhardt. She gives us beauty of tone, grace of 
measure, delicacy of articulation: in short, all the 
technical qualities of verse music, along with the rich 
feeling and fine intelligence without which those tech- 
nical qualities would soon become monotonous. When 
she is at her best, the music melts in the caress of the 
emotion it expresses, and thus completes the conditions 
necessary for obtaining Shakespeare’s effects in Shake- 
speare’s way. When she is on the stage, the play 
asserts its full charm; and when she is gone, and the 
stage carpenters and the orchestra are doing their best 
to pull the entertainment through in Mr. Daly’s way, 
down drops the whole affair into mild tedium. But it 
is impossible to watch the most recent developments of 
Miss Rehan’s style without some uneasiness. I wonder 
whether she is old enough to remember the late Barry 
Sullivan when he was still in his physical prime. Those 
who do will recall, not an obsolete provincial tragedian, 
trading on the wreck of an unaccountable reputation, 
but an actor who possessed in an extraordinary degree 
just the imposing grace, the sensitive personal dignity 
of style, the force and self-reliance into which Miss 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 175 


Rehan’s style is settling. Miss Rehan’s exit in the 
second act of “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” with 
the couplet, 


“J ll follow thee, and make a heaven of hell 
To die upon the hand I love so well,” 


is an exact reproduction of the Barry Sullivan exit. 
Again, in the first act, when Miss Rehan, prone on a 
couch, raises herself on her left hand, and, with her 
right raised “ to heaven,” solemnly declaims the lines: 


“For ere Demetrius look’d on Hermia’s eyne 
He hailed down oaths, that he was only mine; 
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt, 
So he dissolved, and showers of oaths did melt,” 


you are, once more, not forward with Duse, but back 
with Barry Sullivan, who would in just the same way, 
when led into it by a touch of stateliness and sonority 
in the lines, abandon his part, and become for the mo- 
ment a sort of majestic incarnation of abstract solem- 
nity and magnificence. His skill and intense belief in 
himself gave him the dangerous power of doing so with- 
out making himself ridiculous; and it was by this 
power, and by the fascination, the grace, and the force 
which are implied by it, that he gave life to old- 
fashioned and mutilated representations of Shake- 
speare’s plays, poorly acted and ignorantly mounted. 
This was all very well whilst the fascination lasted; 
but when his voice lost its tone, his figure its resilience 
and grace, and his force its spontaneity and natural 
dignity, there was nothing left but a mannered, elderly, 
truculent, and, except to his old admirers, rather ab- 
surd tragedian of the palmy school. As I was a small 
boy when I first saw Barry Sullivan, and as I lost 


176 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


sight of him before his waning charm had quite van- 
ished, I remember him, not as he is remembered by 
those who saw him only in the last ten years of his life, 
but as an actor who was in his day much further 
superior in pictorial, vocal, and rhetorical qualities to 
his next best rival than any actor or actress can easily 
be nowadays. And it strikes me forcibly that unless 
Miss Rehan takes to playing Imogen instead of such 
comparatively childish stuff as Julia or even Helena, 
and unless she throws herself into sympathy with the 
contemporary movement by identifying herself with 
characteristically modern parts of the Magda or Nora 
type, she may find herself left behind in the race by 
competitors of much less physical genius, just as Barry 
Sullivan did. Miss Rehan is clearly absolute mistress 
of the situation at Daly’s Theatre: nobody can per- 
suade me that if she says “ Cymbeline,” Mr. Daly can 
say “*The Two Gentlemen of Verona,” or that if she 
says Sudermann or Ibsen, Mr. Daly can insist on the 
author of “ Dollars and Cents.” But the self-culture 
which has produced her superb graces of manner and 
diction seems to have isolated her instead of quicken- 
ing her sympathy and drawing closer her contact with 
the world. Every woman who sees Duse play Magda 
feels that Duse is acting and speaking for her and 
for all women as they are hardly ever able to speak 
and act for themselves. The same may be said of Miss 
Achurch as Nora. But no woman has ever had the 
very faintest sensation of that kind about any part that 
Miss Rehan has yet played. We admire, not what she 
is doing, but the charm with which she does it. That 
sort of admiration will not last. Miss Rehan’s voice 
is not henceforth going to grow fresher, nor her dignity 
less conscious, nor her grace of gesture less studied and 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 177 


mannered, nor her movements swifter and more spon- 
taneous. Already I find that young people who see her 
for the first time cannot quite agree that our raptures 
about her Katherine and her Rosalind are borne out 
by her Julia and Helena. Five years hence she will 
be still more rhetorical and less real: further ahead I 
dare not look with Barry Sullivan in my mind. There 
is only one way to defy Time; and that is to have 
young ideas, which may always be trusted to find youth- 
ful and vivid expression. I am afraid this means avoid- 
ing the company of Mr. Daly; but it is useless to 
blink the fact that unless a modern actress can and 
will force her manager, in spite of his manly prejudices, 
to produce plays with real women’s parts in them, she 
had better, at all hazards, make shift to manage for 
herself. With Grandfather Daly to choose her plays 
for her, there is no future for Ada Rehan. 


THE SEASON’S MORAL 


27 July, 1896. 
Ne that the theatrical season is over, is there 


any moral to be drawn? I do not mean by 

literary factions — Ibsenites and anti-Ibsenites 
and the like—but by, let us say, a manager with 
enough money at stake to make him anxious to get 
some guidance for next season. To him, as far as I 
can see, the season has been like Ibsen’s plays: the 
moral is that there is no moral. The outcry against 
Ibsen has been deferred to carefully. ‘‘ Little Eyolf ” 
has been boycotted; and none of the older plays have 


178 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


been touched in English, whilst there has been a plenti- 
ful supply of what was described the other day, in 
contradistinction to Ibsen’s work, as “the drama that 
the public likes and the public pays for.”? Need I add 
that in most cases the public has not liked it and 
has declined to pay for it. ‘What is a manager to 
do? He responds to the demand for honest, whole- 
some, English murder, suicide and adultery, by commis- 
sioning M. Sardou to supply those solid native articles; 
and lo! bottomless disaster, worse than the worst 
Ibsen ever threatened. He tries the newest English 
psychological drama, with an interestingly improper 
heroine who throws the Bible into the fire. The press 
proclaims a masterpiece — where is that masterpiece 
now? The infallible Mrs. Tanqueray is revived, and 
does not draw a sixpence. Mr. Grundy, as an expert 
in “ construction,” with daring views on the great mar- 


riage question, is called in; but his “Slaves of the- 


Ring” perishes without having enjoyed a seventicth 
part of the popularity of “A Doll’s House.” Even 
Henry Arthur Jones, the strong and successful, has 
no more than a Norwegian success: the manager might 
have produced “The League of Youth” instead of 
“The Triumph of the Philistines ” without being any 
the poorer. What a muddle it all seems! That safe 
old hand Sardou, playing the safe old game according 
to the safe old rules, fails ignominiously. Those safe 
old hands, Pinero, Grundy, and Jones, cautiously play- 
ing the new game according to the safe old rules, fail 
to retrieve the situation. One must not forget, how- 
ever, that performances have to be taken into account 
as well as plays. Sardou’s contribution, “ Delia Hard- 
ing,” was adequately acted — much better than it de- 
served in Miss Marion Terry’s case — and may be dis- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 179 


missed as having failed hopelessly on its merits. “ Mrs. 
Ebbsmith,” badly cast and badly acted except for Mrs. 
Campbell’s Agnes and Mr. Hare’s Duke of St. Olpherts, 
did not begin to flag until the withdrawal of Mrs. 
Campbell brought out all the defects in the perform- 
ance, ‘“‘ Slaves of the Ring,” though better cast, was 
worse acted than “ Mrs. Ebbsmith ”’?; and “ The Tri- 
umph of the Philistines ” never got fairly on to the 
stage, the strong and sympathetic parts being just 
enough underplayed to take the edge off the perform- 
ance. This points to the difficulty which has been 
apparent for the last five or six years: namely, that 
the public are getting tired of the old-fashioned plays 
faster than the actors are learning to make the new 
ones effective. The unfortunate new dramatist has, 
therefore, to write plays so extraordinarily good that, 
like Mozart’s operas, they succeeded in spite of made- 
quate execution. This is all very well for geniuses like 
Ibsen; but it ts rather hard on the ordinary purveyor 
of the drama. The managers do not seem to me yet to 
grasp this feature of the situation. If they did, they 
would only meddle with the strongest specimens of the 
new drama, instead of timidly going to the old firms 
and ordering moderate plays cut in the new style. No 
doubt the success of “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” 
and “The Case of Rebellious Susan ” seemed to sup- 
port the view that the new style had better be tried 
cautiously by an old hand. But then “Mrs. Tan- 
queray ” had not really the faintest touch of the new 
spirit in it; and recent events suggest that its success 
was due to a happy cast of the dice by which the play 
found an actress who doubled its value and had hers 
doubled by it. For we have this season seen the play 
without the actress and the actress without the play, 


180 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


with disappointing results in both cases. As to “ Re- 
bellious Susan ” it was, on the outside, an amusing and 
naughty comedy, acted by the company which has since 
made a success of Mr. Carton’s scatterbrained and 
conventionally sentimental “ Home Secretary.” The 
fact that “The Triumph of the Philistines,” in which 
the element of social criticism was pushed well to the 
front of the play, and in which the element of amusing 
and naughty comedy was confined to one part, only 
succeeded in respect of this very part, and did not 
hold the stage long, completes the demonstration that 
the moral drawn from the success of Mrs. Tanqueray 
and Rebellious Susan was the wrong moral, and that 
for the present it is dangerous to meddle with plays of 
the new type unless they are strong enough to be 
“actor proof.” ‘Thus it would appear that Mr. Alex- 
ander was ill advised to produce “ The Triumph of 
the Philistines” with such a work as Sudermann’s 
“ Home” (“ Magda’) up his sleeve. “ Home” will 
hold as much acting as even Duse can put into it; 
but the play was handicapped in Duse’s hands by a 
language that the audience did not understand. The 
general complaints made that the situation in the last 
act was strained and weak, were due, I suspect, to the 
failure of the audience to catch the meaning, or at least 
the full force, of the speech which brings about the 
catastrophe. Magda, after many years of work and 
finally of great success as an independent woman, work- 
ing as a public singer, becomes reconciled to her father, 
a fanatical believer in the old ideals of family honor 
and manly supremacy. She has a child whose father 
turns up among the intimate friends of the family. 
Her father demands that she shall marry this man 
as a point of honor. She submits to this and to the 











DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 181 


sacrifice of her profession until the man demands also 
that she shali part with the child in order to save 
appearances. Magda then turns on him and over- 
whelms him with scorn. Her father insists. She defies 
her father, who attempts to kill her and is struck down 
by paralysis in the act. To any one who 1s only 
following in a general way what is happening, this 
catastrophe must indeed appear inadequately motived 
and over-strained. So would the story of Othello under 
the same circumstances. But when the dialogue is fully 
understood, there are few strokes of drama more effec- 
tive and convincing than the climax of the final scene 
between the father and daughter, when she at last asks 
him the terrible question, “How do you know that 
he was the only one?” After that, the catastrophe 
comes quite inevitably; and there is no reason to doubt 
that in an English version it would justify itself fully. 
Mr. Alexander could not easily have got Magda played 
as Duse played her; but he could have got her played 
well enough to make much more effect than those parts 
in Mr. Jones’s play which missed fire through under- 
acting. In truth, Magda is so excellent an acting part 
that it would be very hard for an actress of any stand- 
ing to fail in it. All this, however, is wisdom after 
the event. At the beginning of the season Sudermann 
was an unknown quantity; and everything pointed to 
the expediency of producing “The Triumph of the 
Philistines.’ Besides, Mr. Alexander had already made 
an heroic contribution to the cause of art by ven- 
turing on Mr. Henry James’s “ Guy Domville,” and 
producing it with great care and unstinted liberality, 
though the result was one for which he could hardly 
have been quite unprepared. The play, delicately writ- 
ten and admirably performed, was too fine for the audi- 


182. DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ence; and the gallery first-nighters behaved very badly, 
as they did subsequently, more excusably, at “ Delia 
Harding,” though after that they happily pulled them- 
selves together, and conducted themselves decently dur- 
ing the rest of the season. The production of “ Guy 
Domville” was an attempt to conquer new territory 
by a coup de main; and that sort of enterprise needs 
a heavier weapon than Mr. Henry James forges. Then, 
too, Mr. Henry James’s intellectual fastidiousness re- 
mains untouched by the resurgent energy and wilfulness 
of the new spirit. It takes us back to the exhausted 
atmosphere of George Eliot, Huxley, and Tyndall, in- 
stead of thrusting us forward into the invigorating 
strife raised by Wagner, Ibsen, and Sudermann. That 
verdant dupe of the Junacy specialists, Dr. Max Nor- 
dau, would hardly recognize in Mr. Henry James the 
“stigmata of degeneration,” which no dramatist at 
present can afford to be without. Mr. Alexander should 
have struck his blow with the arm of Ibsen or Suder- 
mann, or else kept to the old ground. And it appears 
that neither Mr. Pinero, Mr. Grundy, nor Mr. Jones 
could have helped him any better than Mr. Henry 
James. Moral, apparently: those who make half revo- 
lutions dig their own graves. 

But it must be remembered, as a check to the folly 
of moralizing, that the plays which belong to no 
“movement,” and in which the authors have gratified 
their fancies without reference to any views, have pros- 
pered — at least, they have not been withdrawn. In 
“The Passport,” “ The Prude’s Progress,” and “ The 
Strange Adventures of Miss Brown,” you have imagi- 
nation, humor, and a sense of character within the 
limits of good fellowship. These qualities will carry 
a good deal of psychology and social doctrine about 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 183 


the unhappiness of marriage, the emancipation of 
woman, and so forth, if the loading be judiciously 
done. But the psychology and the doctrine can be 
done without, whereas the imagination, the humor, the 
sympathetic sense of character, whether blunt and 
vulgar or acute and subtle, are indispensable. It was 
the purest snobbery of criticism which this season 
reverently hailed “ The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith ” as 
a masterpiece, and saluted “ The Prude’s Progress ” 
with a supercilious nod. I rather congratulate myself 
on having been polite to the three unpretending suc- 
cesses, and on having cut Mrs. Ebbsmith dead at first 
sight. 

Here again it should be noted that these three suc- 
cessful plays, unlike “ Mrs. Ebbsmith” and “ The 
Philistines,” are very well cast and very well acted, 
“The Passport ” especially being played for all it 1s 
worth by an exceptionally strong and well suited com- 
pany. Another apparently successful play was Mr. 
Carton’s ‘ Home Secretary.”’ Mr. Carton, beside the 
pleasant gift of lightness of heart, has at least imagina- 
tion and humor enough to assimilate the imaginative 
and humorous work of other authors, and to make up 
a pasticcio of the parts in which a London audience 
delights to see certain favorite artists: Mr. Lewis 
Waller as Captain Swift, Miss Neilson as the austerely 
angelic wife of an erring mortal man, Miss Moore as a 
bewitching flirt, Mr. Sydney Brough as a good-hearted 
young gentleman with a sympathetically comic love 


_ affair, and Mr. Wyndham as a reformed rake. For 


my part, I wish Mr. Wyndham had never reformed. 
In the old days, when he sipped every flower and 
changed every hour, when he sowed acres of wild oats 
and violated every moral obligation, one foresaw that 


184 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the pace would not last, and one hoped that he would 
presently go deeper into life and art, and do the fullest 
justice to his admirable talent as an actor. Unhappily, 
instead of doing this, he played the insufferable John 
Mildmay, became serious, and gave up acting alto- 
gether to exhibit himself as a quiet gentleman, who 
can act in the old scandalous fashion if he likes, but 
prefers, as a man of heart, to refrain. The refrain 
is no doubt impressive; but it is getting tiresome as 
a pose, though I should be delighted to see it in a real 
part. Rosmer, for instance, would be an excellent 
part for Mr. Wyndham in his latest vein. 

I now propose to banish the theatre from my mind 
for a couple of months at least. Since January [I have 
devoted to it far too much of what was meant for 
mankind. JI could hardly have gone back to it even 
for the above retrospect had I not been led gently by 
Miss Cissie Loftus, whose imitations of popular actors 
I studied with much interest at the Palace Theatre the 
other evening. Nothing teaches a critic more than a 
study of how far a great artist can be imitated. As 
a musical critic I learnt a great deal from a comparison 
of Miss Nettie Carpenter with Sarasate, and Miss 
Szumowska with Paderewski; and I am the wiser now 
for seeing how much more of Sarah Bernhardt Miss 
Loftus can reproduce than of Miss Rehan. But it is 
not as a mimic that Miss Loftus fascinates the public. 
The imitation, clever and delicate as it is, is only an 
excuse for the reality, which is Miss Loftus herself; 
and J shall not analyze the qualities which go to make 
up her very attractive personality until I see her on 
another stage acting at first hand. Among other 
artists whom I saw at the Palace were Miss Clara 
Wieland and the illustrious Miss Lottie Collins. Miss 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 185 


Wieland is very interesting from the critic’s point of 
view. Her singing, her dancing, her pantomime, her 
ogling, her cleverness, even her plump sort of pretti- 
ness, are as smart and artistic as they need be; and 
yet it is impossibie to detect in her any enjoyment of 
what she does, or any sympathetic sense of its charm. 
She seems to have observed that such things are effec- 
tive, and to have industriously learnt to do and to be 
accordingly. Miss Lottie Collins, on the other hand, 
has still her Tarararesque diable au corps; but all 
the music has gone from her singing, because, in her 
determination to deliver her lines pointedly, she forgets 
to keep up the swing of the tune, and allows her comic- 
song singing to decay into mere seventh-rate character 
acting. A tune treated in that way is a tune spoilt; 
and the words of a music-hall song are never worth 
spoiling the tune for. I respectfully assure Miss Col- 
lins that unless she promptly recaptures the art of 
keeping the musical lilt perfectly in step with every 
syllable of the words, she will soon find her popularity 
degringolading from the summit on which the Tarara 
craze exalted it. 


ROMEO AND JULIET 


Romeo and Juliet. Lyceum Theatre, 21 September, 
1895. 


OW we lavish our money and our worship on 
Shakespeare without in the least knowing why! 


From time to time we ripen for a new act of 
homage. Great preparations are made; high hopes are 
raised; every one concerned, from the humblest persona 


186 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


muta on the stage to the sworn first-nighter in the gal- 
lery, is full of earnest belief that the splendor of the 
Swan will be revealed at last, like the Holy Grail. And 
yet the point of the whole thing is missed every time 
with ludicrous ineptitude; and often a ruined actor- 
manager spends the rest of his life, like the Ancient 
Mariner, in telling the tale of what it cost, and how 
So-and-So got his (or her) first chance in it, and how 
such and such other eminent people declared that noth- 
ing like it had ever been done before, and so on and so 
forth. Still, there is nothing for it but to try and try 
and try again. Every revival helps to exhaust the num- 
ber of possible ways of altering Shakespeare’s plays un- 
successfully, and so hastens the day when the mere 
desire for novelty will lead to the experiment of leaving 
them unaltered. Let us see what there is to learn from 
Mr. Forbes Robertson’s revival of “* Romeo and Juliet,” 
before that goes the way of all the other revivals. [I 
hardly like to call Mr. Forbes Robertson an artist, 
because he is notoriously an Englishman with a taste 
for painting, and the two things are usually incom- 
patible. Your Englishman always conceives that to be 
romantic and to have a susceptible imagination 1s to 
be potentially a painter. His eye for form may be 
that of a carpenter, his sense of color that of a haber- 
dasher’s window-dresser in the Old Kent Road: no mat- 
ter, he can still imagine historical scenes — “ King 
James recelving the news of the landing of William 
of Orange” or the like—and draw them and color 
them, or he can dress up his wife as Zenobia or Dante’s 
Beatrice or Dolly Varden, according to her style, and 
copy her. I do not level these disparaging observa- 
tions at Mr. Forbes Robertson: I only wish to make it 
clear that I approach his latest enterprise completely 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 187 


free from the common assumption that he is likely to 
stage “ Romeo and Juliet ” better than any one else 
because he paints pictures and sends them to the ex- 
hibitions occasionally. To be quite frank, I am rather 
prejudiced against him by that fact, since I learn in 
the days when I criticized pictures that his sense of 
color is essentially and Britannically an imaginative 
and moral one: that is, he associates low tones (“ quiet 
colors ” they call them in Marshall & Snellgrove’s ) with 
dignity and decency, and white linen with cleanliness 
and respectability. I am therefore not surprised to 
find the dresses at the Lyceum, though handsome and 
expensive, chastened by the taste of an English gentle- 
man; so that the stalls can contemplate the fourteenth 
century and yet feel at home there —a remarkable 
result, and a very desirable one for those who like it. 
* Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s dresses,” says the pro- 
gramme, “have been carried out by Mrs. Mason, of 
New Burlington Street.” I can only say that I wish 
they had been carried out and buried. They belong 
to Mrs. Mason, and are her triumph, instead of to 
Mrs. Campbell. I know how to value an actress who 
is an artist in dressing fashionably, like Miss Gertrude 
Kingston; and I delight in one who is an artist in 
dressing originally, like Miss Ellen Terry; but a lady 
who is dressed by somebody else, according to some- 
body else’s ideas, like any dressmaker-made woman of 
fashion, is artistically quite out of the question; and 
I can only excuse the Lyceum Juliet costumes on the 
supposition that Mrs. Campbell deliberately aimed at 
suggesting by them the tutelage of a girl of fourteen 
who is not yet allowed to choose her own dresses. 

The scenery is excellent. Mr. William Harford’s 
*¢ public place in Verona ”’ has only one defect, and that 


188 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


a very English one. The sky is too cold, and the 
cypresses too pale: better have painted them with dabs 
of warm brown on an actually gold sky in the beautiful 
old fashion, than have risked that Constablesque sug- 
gestion, faint as it is, of English raininess and chill. 
But for the rest, it is easy to imagine that the flood of 
the Adige is really hurrying along behind that embank- 
ment as Mercutio leans idly over it. Friar Laurence’s 
cell, too, is good: one can feel the shadowed cloisters 
outside, with the sunlight and the well in the middle of 
the quadrangle; and though I do not believe that a 
simple friar’s cell often ran to the luxury of a couple 
of frescoes by Giotto, yet the touch is suggestive and 
pardonable. Mr. Ryan’s corner of Mantua in the last 
act would be perfect if the hight could only be forced 
to Italian pitch: in fact, it surpasses the real thing in 
respect of its freedom from the atrocious Mantuan 
stenches and huge mosquitoes from the marshes. Mr. 
Harker has only one scene, that of Capulet’s ball, a 
beautiful fourteenth-century loggia; whilst Mr. Har- 
ford, having to do another scene in Capulet’s house, 
has jumped forward to genteelly elegant Renaissance 
work in carved white marble, in the manner of the 
Miracoli at Venice. It will be inferred, and rightly in- 
ferred, that the scenery is enormously in advance of 
that to which Mr. Augustin Daly treated us for 
“The Two Gentlemen of Verona.” No doubt Mr. 
Daly paid as much as Mr. Forbes Robertson; but 
Mr. Daly’s scene-painters copied bad work, and Mr. 
Forbes Robertson’s have copied good. That makes all 
the difference. 

Of course, in criticizing the general effect, the play 
and the acting cannot be altogether left out of ac- 
count, though it would be unfair to lay too much stress 








DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 189 


on them. Perhaps the most difficult character in the 
play as far as finesse of execution goes is Mercutio. 
We see Mercutio in his first scene as a wit and fantasist 
of the most delicate order. In his next, apparently 
without any shock to the Elizabethan sense of con- 
gruity, he is a detestable and intolerable cad, the exact 
prototype of our modern ’Arry. The change gives 
such another glimpse into the manners of that time 
as you get in “ Much Ado” from the astonishment 
which Benedick creates by taking to washing his face 
every day. By stage tradition, Mercutio is as much a 
leading part as Romeo, if not more so. Therefore, 
when the manager chooses Romeo, he should be par- 
ticularly careful to choose a good Mercutio, lest he 
should appear to have that part purposely under- 
played. Perhaps this was why Mr. Forbes Robertson 
went so far out of his way as to cast Mr. Coghlan 
for the part. If so, he overreached himself; for he 
could not possibly have made a worse choice. I really 
cannot express myself politely on the subject of Mr. 
Coghlan’s performance. He lounges, he mumbles, he 
delivers the Queen Mab speech in a raffish patter which 
takes, and is apparently deliberately meant to take, 
all beauty of tone and grace of measure out of it. 
It may be that Mr. Coghlan has studied the part care- 
fully, and come to the conclusion that since the visit of 
the Montagues to Capulet’s ball is a young bloods’ esca- 
pade, Mercutio should be represented as coming half 
drunk and lolling on the stone seat outside to repeat 
a tipsy rigmarole about nothing. In that case I must 
express my entire disagreement with Mr. Coghlan’s 
reading. Shakespeare never leaves me in any doubt 
as to when he means an actor to play Sir Toby Belch 
and when to play Mercutio, or when he means an actor 


190 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


to speak measured verse and when slipshod colloquial 
prose. 

Far better than Mr. Coghlan’s Mercutio, and yet 
quite the worst impersonation I have ever seen of a 
not very difficult old woman’s part, was Miss Dolores 
Drummend’s Nurse. Tybalt’s is such an unmercifully 
bad part that one can hardly demand anything from 
its representative except that he should brush his hair 
when he comes to his uncle’s ball (a condition which 
he invariably repudiates) and that he should be so 
consummate a swordsman as to make it safe for Romeo 
to fall on him with absolute abandonment, and annihi- 
late him as Jean de Reszke used to annihilate Montariol. 
This is one of the great sensations of the play: unless 
an actor is capable of a really terrible explosion of 
rage, he had better let Romeo alone. Unfortunately, 
the “ fire-eyed fury ” before which Tybalt falls lies out- 
side the gentlemanly limits of Mr. Forbes Robertson’s 
stage instinct; and it may be that his skill as an actor 
is not equal to the task of working-up the audience to 
the point at which they will imagine an explosion which 
cannot, of course, be real. At all events the duel scene 
has none of the murderous excitement which 1s the whole 
dramatic point of it: it is tamed down to a mere formal 
pretext for the banishment of Romeo. Mr. Forbes 
Robertson has evidently no sympathy with Shake- 
speare’s love of a shindy: you see his love of law and 
order coming out in his stage management of the fight- 
ing scenes. Nobody is allowed to enjoy the scrim- 
mage: Capulet and Montague are silenced; and the 
spectators of the duel are women —I should say ladies 
— who look intensely shocked to see gentlemen of posi- 
tion so grossly forgetting themselves. Mr. Forbes Rob- 
ertson himself fights with unconcealed repugnance: he 











DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 191 


makes you feel that to do it in that disorderly way, 
without seconds, without a doctor, showing temper 
about it, and actually calling his adversary names, jars 
unspeakably on him. Far otherwise have we seen him 
as Orlando wrestling with Charles. But there the con- 
test was in the presence of a court, with measured 
ground and due formality — under Queensberry rules, 
so to speak. For the rest, Mr. Forbes Robertson is 
very handsome, very well dressed, very perfectly be- 
haved. His assortment of tones, of gestures, of facial 
expressions, of attitudes, are limited to half a dozen 
apiece; but they are carefully selected and all of the 
best. The arrangements in the last scene are exceed- 
ingly nice: the tomb of the Capulets is beautifully 
kept, well lighted, and conveniently accessible by a 
couple of broad steps — quite like a new cathedral 
chapel. Indeed, when Romeo, contemplating the bier 
of Juliet (which reflected the utmost credit on the 
undertaker ) said: 


“ T still will stay with thee, 
And never from this palace of dim night 
Depart again,” 


I felt that the sacrifice he was making in doing with- 
out a proper funeral was greatly softened. Romeo 
was a gentleman to the last. He laid out Paris after 
killing him as carefully as if he were folding up his best 
sult of clothes. One remembers Irving, a dim figure 
dragging a horrible burden down through the gloom 
‘into the rotten jaws of death,” and reflects on the 
differences of imaginative temperament that underlie 
the differences of acting and stage-managing. 

As to Juliet, she danced like the daughter of 
Herodias. And she knew the measure of her lines to 


192 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


a hairbreadth. Did I not say, long ago, that Mrs, 
Tanqueray’s piano-playing was worth all the rest of 
her? And yet I was taken in by Mrs. Tanqueray — 
also by Mrs. Ebbsmith, as we all were. Woman’s 
great art is to lie low, and let the imagination of the 
male endow her with depths. How Mrs. Patrick Camp- 
bell must have laughed at us whilst we were giving 
her all the credit —if credit it were — for our silly 
psychologizing over those Pinero parts! As Juliet she 
still fits herself into the hospitable manly heart without 
effort, simply because she is a wonderful person, not 
only in mere facial prettiness, in which respect she is 
perhaps not superior to the bevy of “extra ladies” 
in the fashionable scenes in the new Drury Lane play, 
not even in her light, beautifully proportioned figure, 
but in the extraordinary swiftness and certainty of 
her physical self-command. I am convinced that Mrs, 
Patrick Campbell could thread a needle with her toes 
at the first attempt as rapidly, as smoothly, as prettily, 
and with as much attention to spare for doing any- 
thing else at the same time as she can play an arpeggio. 
This physical talent, which is seldom consciously recog- 
nized except when it is professedly specialized in some 
particular direction (as in the case, for instance, of 
Miss Letty Lind), will, when accompanied by nimble- 
ness of mind, quick observation, and lively theatrical 
instinct, carry any actress with a rush to the front of 
her profession, as it has carried Mrs. Patrick Camp- 
bell. Her Juliet, nevertheless, is an immature perform- 
ance at all the exceptional points, which, please re- 
member, are not very numerous, much of Juliet’s 
business being of a kind that no “ leading lady ” of or- 
dinary ability could possibly fail in. All the conscious 
ideas gathered by her from the part and carried out in 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 193 


planned strokes of her own are commonplace. ‘There 
is not a touch of tragedy, not a throb of love or fear, 
temper instead of passion: in short, a Juliet as un- 
nwakened as Richard III, one in whose death you don’t 
believe, though you would not cry over it if you did 
believe. Nothing of it is memorable except the dance 
-— the irresistible dance. 

It should never be forgotten in judging an attempt 
to play “ Romeo and Juliet ” that the parts are made 
almost impossible, except to actors of positive genius, 
skilled to the last degree in metrical declamation, by 
the way in which the poetry, magnificent as it Is, is 
interlarded by the miserable rhetoric and silly logical 
conceits which were the foible of the Elizabethans. 
‘When Juliet comes out on her balcony and, having pro- 
pounded the question, ‘‘ What ’s in a name? ” proceeds 
to argue it out like an amateur attorney in Christmas- 
ward verse of the “rose by any other name” order, 
mo actress can make it appear natural to a century 
which has discovered the art of giving prolonged and 
intense dramatic expression to pure feeling alone, with- 
out any skeleton of argument or narrative, by means 
of music. Romeo has lines that tighten the heart or 
catch you up into the heights, alternately with heart- 
less fustian and silly ingenuities that make you curse 
Shakespeare’s stagestruckness and his youthful in- 
ability to keep his brains quiet. It needs a great flow- 
ing tide of passion, an irresistibly impetuous march of 
music, to carry us over these pitfalls and stumbling- 
blocks, even when we are foolish enough to mistake 
the good for the bad, and to reverently accept Mr. 
Coghlan as an authority on the subject of Mercutio. 
It would be folly to hold out any such hopes of rescue 
at the Lyceum. Of the whole company there is only 


194 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


one member who achieves artistic respectability as a 
Shakespearean player, and that is Mr. Warde as 
Capulet. For the most part, one has to listen to the 
music of Shakespeare —- in which music, I repeat again 
and again, the whole worth and charm of these early 
plays of his lies — as one might listen to a symphony 
of Beethoven’s with all the parts played on the bones, 
the big drum, and the Jew’s-harp. But the production 
is an unsparing effort, and therefore as honorable to 
Mr. Forbes Robertson’s management as the highest 
artistic success could make it. The more efforts of 
that kind we have, the sooner we shall have the artistic 
success. 


PINERO AS HE IS ACTED 


The Benefit of the Doubt: a new and original comedy, 
in three acts. By Arthur W. Pinero. Comedy 
Theatre, 16 October, 1895. 

Poor Mr. Potton: a new and original farce, in three 
acts. By Clarence Hamlyn and H. M. Paull. Vaude- 
ville Theatre, 10 October, 1895. 


fit of the Doubt ” is worth “ The Profligate,” 

“Mrs. Tanqueray,” and ‘Mrs. Ebbsmith ” 
rolled into one and multiplied by ten. It is melan- 
choly to have to add that it has broken the back of 
our London stage, and may even fail through the 
sniffing monotony and dreary ugliness of the acting; 
but about the merit of the play there can be no ques- 
tion. Mr. Pinero, concentrating himself on a phase of 
life and sentiment which he thoroughly understands, 


Te time Mr. Pinero has succeeded. ‘* The Bene- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 195 


has extracted abundant drama from it, and maintained 
it at an astonishingly high and even pressure for two 
hours, without for a moment being driven back on the 
woman with a past, the cynical libertine peer, the angel 
of purity, the Cayley Drummle confidant, or any other 
of the conventional figures which inevitably appear in 
his plays whenever he conceives himself to be dealing 
as a sociologist with public questions of which he has 
no solid knowledge, but only a purely conventional and 
theatrical conceit. In “ The Benefit of the Doubt ” he 
keeps within the territory he has actually explored; 
and the result is at once apparent in the higher dra- 
matic pressure, the closer-knit action, the substitution 
of a homogeneous slice of life for the old theatrical 
sandwich of sentiment and comic relief, and the com- 
parative originality, naturalness, and free development 
of the characters. Even in the machinery by which 
the persons of the play are got on and off the stage 
there is a marked improvement. It is artificial enough 
— Mr. Pinero has not exactly been born again — but 
at least there are no intercepted letters, or sendings 
of one set of people to France and another to India 
in order to enable a lady to arrive unexpectedly or 
a gentleman to walk in by night at the drawing-room 
window. There certainly is one nocturnal visit through 
a window; but it is pardonable; and for the rest, the 
people come and go in a normal and respectable man- 
ner. The play is of a frivolous widow with three fast, 
slangy, pretty daughters, two of them married. An 
amiable young gentleman named John Allinghan, tor- 
mented by a frightfully jealous wife, confides his miser- 
ies to one of the married daughters, a Mrs. Fraser 
(Fraser being much away from home). The jealous 
Mrs. Allingham sues for a judicial separation, and 


196 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the play opens at the point where her petition is 
refused. Mrs. Fraser, however, only escapes very nar- 
rowly, as the Judge comments strongly on her indis- 
cretion, and suggests nothing more complimentary for 
her than “ the benefit of the doubt.” When Mr. Fraser 
comes home, he acts on this suggestion so very grudg- 
ingly that Mrs. Fraser rushes off to throw herself 
upon the more sympathetic Allingham. But that ill- 
starred example of the perils of excessive good-nature 
has meanwhile succumbed to his wife’s appeal for a 
reconciliation, she being nearly as violent in her re- 
morse as in her jealousy, and much less reasonable. 
There you have your drama: first, in the suspense 
of awaiting the verdict, ended by the return of Mrs. 
Fraser from the divorce court to face out her disgrace 
before her family and be driven to desperation by the 
rebuff from her husband; and second, her arrival at. 
Allngham’s house just as the demon of jealousy has 
been reinstalled there on the domestic throne. In 
handling all this Mr. Pinero is never at a loss. He 
knows what pretty daughters and frivolous mothers 
are like in those circles which used to be called demi- 
mondaine before that distinction was audaciously an- 
nexed by people who are not mondaine at all; he 
knows what the divorce court and the newspapers mean 
to them; he knows what a jealous woman is like; and 
he has dramatized them with an intensity never attained 
by him before. Consciously or unconsciously, he has 
this time seen his world as it really is: that 1s, a world 
which never dreams of bothering its little head with 
large questions or general ideas. He no longer at- 
tempts to dress up Mrs. Ponsonby de Tompkins lke 
Mrs. Besant, and to present the ridiculous result as 
a portrait of a typical modern “ advanced ” woman: 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 197 


he sticks to the Bayswater-Kensington genre, of which 
he is a master. He does not even adulterate it with 
conventional stage sentiment: for instance, none of 
Mrs. Emptage’s fast and rather raffish daughters burst 
into tears at the thought of the holy purity of their 
sixteenth year, when they could look angels in the face 
unashamed, as Paula Tanqueray did. His early weak- 
nesses have disappeared along with his late affecta- 
tions; and the happy issue is the best serious play 
he has yet produced. 

The subject of the acting is almost too painful to 
face. The second act, which lasts, for more than an 
hour, 1s pervaded by the violently jealous wife. She 
only leaves the stage to give place to her wearied and 
desperate rival, who ends by drinking champagne-cup 
to save herself from fainting, and, having fed on noth- 
ing all day but excitement, naturally gets tipsy and 
hysterical. Such scenes, however moving and interest- 
ing they may be, and however skilfully written, can 
only be made tolerable by sheer beauty of execution. 
Tact and experience — the best substitutes our un- 
fortunate stage can offer — may do something to steer 
the performance clear of positive offensiveness; but 
tact and experience are not enough: unless the lines 
are spoken by voices of which the ear never tires, with 
gestures and action which never lose their fascination, 
the result can be no better than a disagreeable ex- 
perience, drawing a crowd and holding it only as a 
street accident does. ‘The reason why the second act 
made the audience uneasy was that long before the end 
of it we had had enough, and more than enough, not of 
the play, but of the performers. We all know the 
melodramatic style which grew up in the days when 
actors who played “ emotional ” parts habitually got 


198 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


themselves into the requisite maudlin condition by mak- 
ing themselves half drunk. This was the true origin 
of the detestable veiled voice and muzzy utterance which 
no longer produce any illusion except that of the odor 
of spirits. The actor of the past will not walk across 
the stage to open the door: he plunged headlong at 
the handle, and, when he had safely grasped it, rolled 
his eye round to give some pretence of dramatic sig- 
nificance to an action which really expressed nothing 
but his doubts as to his ability to walk straight. He 
hung over the furniture, leant against the staircase, 
wallowed, collapsed tragically when he sat down, did 
everything, in short, to conceal his condition and cover 
up the absence of that clear, sober, elegant speech 
and movement which mark the self-possessed and ac- 
complished artist. The old drunken habits have nearly 
passed away — at least, I hope future generations of 
eritics will not often have to write sympathetic obituary 
notices deploring the “‘ breakdown in health ” of actors 
and actresses who notoriously drank themselves first off 
the stage and then out of the world — but the style of 
acting that arose in the days when everybody drank 
remains with us as a senseless superstition, and is still 
laboriously acquired and cultivated by perfectly sober 
actors. Unhappily for Mr. Pinero’s play, Mr. Leonard 
Boyne, who probably has no suspicion of the real ori- 
gin of the traditional style of play of which he has 
made himself, next to Mr. Charles Warner, the most 
popular exponent, played John Allingham as he would 
have played an Adelphi or Drury Lane hero. Miss 
Lily Hanbury, as the jealous Mrs. Allingham, soon 
proved the weakness of our system of promoting young 
ladies to leading parts on the strength of good looks 
and general intelligence and address. Miss Hanbury 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 199 


acted as acting is understood on the London stage. 
That is, she expressed emotion by catching the left side 
of her under lip between her front teeth, and twisting 
the right corner as much out of its natural place as 
possible. She cried, and declared that she was “ bad,” 
meaning that she was mad. Her voice, which careful 
cultivation might by this time have made a very agree- 
able one, still has all its girlish, nasal character. Five 
minutes of Mr. Boyne and Miss Hanbury, doing seme 
light and pleasant work in an ordinary play, would 
leave the impression that they were charming and clever 
people, and encourage our fatuous satisfaction with the 
most incompetent profession in the world; but half an 
hour with them — such a half-hour as Mr. Pinero has 
set them — may I never spend such another! They did 
their best; but they were hopelessly overparted. As 
to Miss Winifred Emery, she received boundless ap- 
plause; but as it burst out in all its enthusiasm in 
the first act, before she had uttered a word or made 
a gesture, it may safely be discounted. All the same, 
Miss Emery played astonishingly well, considering that 
she is virtually a beginner at work so difficult as that 
cut out for her by Mr. Pincro. She was, of course, 
powerfully aided by her natural charm, and by the 
confidence in it which experience has given her. The 
champagne scene and the passages of querulous lassi- 
tude were frankly realistic; and I rather doubt whether 
a less pretty and popular lady dare have treated them 
so without greater art to help her. Even as it was, 
Miss Emery sometimes lost her style and allowed her 
intonation to become decidedly disagreeable. But for 
the most part, and especially in the first act, she got 
far beyond any point I have scen her reach before, and, 
indeed, beyond any point that is commonly reached by 


200 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


our London “ leading ladies.”’ She evidently only wants 
plenty of that sort of work to make her, within the 
limits of her temperament, a highly accomplished 
actress. 

Miss Rose Leclercq, not this time condemned to play 
the usual caricature of herself, had a real part, and 
played it with real distinction. The other parts are of 
the usual type; that is to say, they require a certain 
professional habit for their effective presentation, but 
involve little knowledge of the art of acting. The best 
of them are in the hands of Miss Esme Beringer, Mr. 
Cyril Maude, and Mr. Aubrey Fitzgerald. Mr. Pinero, 
always a bad hand at casting a play, has not fitted 
Miss Beringer very happily — more ’s the pity, as she 
is one of the few young actresses now on the stage 
who have studied their profession, or even realized 
that there is anything to study in it. 

“Poor Mr. Potton,” at the Vaudeville, is called a 
farce, even a new and original farce; but it is hardly 
more than a romp. However, it is tolerably good fun 
of its kind, childish fun mostly as regards the action, 
clever fun occasionally as regards the lines. The 
scenes, especially the last act, are not at all ill-planned: 
there is a certain incongruity between the jejune flimsi- 
ness of the general notion of the play and the compara- 
tive solidity and intelligence with which it is put to- 
gether. Probably this is a natural consequence of the 
collaboration between Mr. Clarence Hamlyn and Mr. 
Paull. From the critical point of view the play 1s 
chiefly interesting as an example of the extent to 
which brutality and silliness are still in demand in our 
theatres, just as the performance is an example of the 
impudent artlessness with which long scenes can be 
gabbled through on the London stage without provok- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 201 


ing as much criticism as a company of children per- 
forming in a nursery would receive from their parents. 
The brutality 1s, of course, unconscious, though that 
is an excellent reason for a critical attempt to induce 
some consciousness of it. The fun of the play lies 
in the engagement of Mr. Potton (Mr. Weedon Gros- 
smith) to an elderly and several times widowed heroine 
(Miss Gladys Homfrey). Miss Gladys Homfrey is a 
lady of very ample proportions. I shall not attempt 
to estimate the excess of her weight over that of Mr. 
Weedon Grossmith with precision: let me put it roughly 
and safely at not less than fifty pounds. Need I add 
that the main joke in “Poor Mr. Potton” is the 
spectacle of Miss Homfrey throwing herself ponder- 
ously on Mr. Grossmith’s neck, and being petted and 
kissed and courted by him. I am obliged to make the 
strange confession that I do not enjoy this sort of 
stage effort; though I admit that the guffaws which 
it invariably elicits show that London audiences do not 
agree with me. Mr. Gilbert quite understood his public 
when he furnished his operas so carefully with stout 
and mature ladies for the express purpose of making 
fun of their age and figure. Such fun has always re- 
volted me; and I am waiting for the time when it will 
revolt the public too. I have by me a book called 
“ The Elizabethan Hamlet,” by Mr. John Corbin, pub- 
lished by Mr. Elkin Mathews, in which the author suc- 
ceeds in fully driving home the fact, not of course 
hitherto unknown, but certainly hitherto underesti- 
mated, that Hamlet first became popular on the stage 
as a madman: that is, as a comic person according 
to the ideas of that time. I say of that time as a 
matter of politeness to my contemporaries, though any 
one who has ever seen a village idiot at large must have 


202 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


seen also a crowd of villagers teasing him, encouraging 
him to make uncouth sounds and cut deplorable capers, 
and laughing at him with gross enjoyment as at one 
of Nature’s primest jokes. It has always been so, I 
am afraid. ‘The old-fashioned king’s jester was not a 
clever, satirical, able person like Dumas’s Chicot: he 
was a zany, a poor idiot, a butt, not a wit. Fortu- 
nately we have at last reached a point at which the old 
Hamlet play is out of the question, whilst the master- 
piece which Shakespeare built on it is the most popular 
play we have. But is there any distinction, except in 
degree of atrocity, between the old brutal laughter at 
** Hamblet’s ” madness and murderous cunning, and our 
laughter to-day at the Lady Janes of Mr. Gilbert, and 
at certain comedians and music-hall artists who are 
commercially fortunate enough to be abnormally small 
or grotesque in appearance? And if Shakespeare, in 
a much coarser age, could take subjects which were 
reeking with the vilest stage traditions, and lift them 
at one stroke to the highest tragie dignity, is it too 
much to ask that our modern dramatists should ha- 
bitually assume that “ the British public ” consists of 
humane persons with developed sympathies, and not of 
rowdy undergraduates and street Arabs? I presume 
that Miss Gladys Homfrey has an honorable ambition 
to distinguish herself in the art of acting, as Mrs. 
Stirling and Mrs. Gilbert have distinguished them- 
selves. Why then should she be condemned to merely 
exhibit herself as a fat lady? I am not pretending 
to ignore the fact that personality is an element in 
the qualification of an actor or actress as well as 
skill, and that our stage affords so little training that 
practical dramatic authorship has become the art of 
exploiting the personalities of popular favorites in- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 208 


stead of setting tasks to the executive skill of accom- 
plished artists. If a young author were to come to 
me and announce his intention of striving to win fame 
by creating an imaginary heroine who should survive 
millions of real women as Imogen and Gretchen have, 
I should, in the paternal character of a man of the 
world, immediately reply, ‘‘ Bless your mnocence, you 
must n’t do that. You must vamp up a serious part 
that will fit Mrs. Patrick Campbell, and a serio-comic 
part that will fit Miss Fanny Brough, bearing care- 
fully in mind that neither of these ladies ever acts 
anybody but herself, nor indeed dare to do it, since 
the public goes to the theatre to see them playing 
themselves and not to enjoy dramatic poetry or fine 
acting.” Still, there are limits even to the compulsory 
cynicism of dramatic authorship. The author may be 
forced to exploit a lady’s temperament and appearance 
because she cannot act; but he need not condescend 
to exploit her circumference. Characters like Falstaff 
are not added to dramatic literature by any process 
so cheap as the simple making game of the stoutest 
member of the profession. 

Two parts in “ Poor Mr. Potton” are well played. 
Mr. Weedon Grossmith succeeds in making Potton 
perfectly real, and quite a different person from the 
other characters of his creation. His perplexed con- 
viction, the apparent unconsciousness with which he 
allows his funniest points to make themselves, the art 
with which he takes care that they shall make them- 
selves, and the adroitness of his execution, leave noth- 
ing for the critic to say except that the part is as 
well done as it can be done. Miss Haydon, as Mrs. 
Potton, makes a charming old lady, preserving her 
own dignity and that of her art, as well as the veri- 


204 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


similitude of the play, without losing a scrap of comic 
effect. I will not say that none of the rest were amus- 
ing; but they certainly were often quite as annoying 
as amusing, gabbling and guying as if the play were 
being performed for their entertainment much more 
than for that of the audience. Accustomed as I am 
becoming to see important parts given to clowning 
novices and to young women whose flippant personal 
vanity, bad manners, vulgarly titivated costumes, and 
slipshod carelessness of speech and action would not be 
tolerated from a parlor-maid by the people who are 
expected to pay half a guinea for a seat at the theatre, 
it hardly now seems worth while to complain of an 
outrage more or less in this direction. The Vaudeville 
company, apart from Mr. Grossmith and Miss Haydon, 
is neither better nor worse than I expected to find it. 
The exceptions were Miss Beet, who gave a capital 
sketch of an irritable general servant, and Mr. Tom 
Terriss, whose father has endowed him handsomely 
with an admirable voice and an attractive figure and 
face, disinheriting him only in the matter of his chin, 
which is a comparatively unfamiliar figure. If Mr. 
Terriss’s part was not a very exacting one, he at least 
got a thorough grip on it, and would have pleased the 
audience even if his name had been an unknown one. 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 205 


THE CHILI WIDOW 


12 October, 1898. 
The Chili Widow. Adapted by Arthur Bourchier and 
Alfred Sutro from Monsieur le Directeur, by MM. 
Bisson and Carré. Royalty Theatre. 


N paying a somewhat belated visit to “ The Chili 
Widow ” the other evening, I was astonished to 
find that Mr. Bourchier has not only taken the 

Royal Theatre — many have done that before him, and 
some have repented it—but has actually founded 
there, with apparent success, a new school of stage 
art. At least it is new to the regular professional 
stage, though not to the country house or the university 
dramatic club. It is the school of the romping, gleeful 
amateur, not he with the contracted brow, the Eliza- 
bethan imagination, and the patent method of voice pro- 
duction, but the facetious undergraduate who dresses 
up for a lark, the awfully jolly girl who can act like 
anything, and the funny man with accomplishments, 
including the banjo. I am not intolerant of such 
sportiveness: the majesty of criticism can unbend 
on occasion and enjoy a bit of fun, served up with 
ridiculous home-made art, as much as the humblest 
member of the domestic staff admitted to the drawing- 
room to see the daughters of the house in their stage 
glory. Even at the Royalty Theatre I do not object 
to it: only, it is my duty to be perfectly explicit with 
the public as to the nature of the entertainment. Let 
me therefore explain. 

The accomplishments which distinguish the trained 
actor from the amateur are not the same as the quali- 


206 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ties which distinguish great actors from ordinary ones. 
Take, first, the difference between the trained actor and 
the man in the street — the layman. When the layman 
walks, his only object is to get to Charing Cross; when 
he makes a gesture, it is to attract the attention of a 
cab-driver or bus-conductor; when he speaks, it is to 
convey or demand information, or tell a lie, or other- 
wise further his prosaic ends; when he moves his hands, 
it is to put up his umbrella or take out his handker- 
chief. On the stage these merely utilitarian purposes 
are only simulated: the real purpose is to produce an 
effect on the senses and imagination of the spectator. 
The actor’s walk is addressed to the spectator’s sense 
of grace, dignity, or strength of movement, and his 
voice to the listener’s sense of expressive or beautiful 
tone. Impersonations even of ugly or deformed crea- 
tures with harsh voices have the same artistic character, 
and are agreeably disagreeable, just as the most ex- 
treme discords in a symphony or opera are distinctly 
musical, and perfectly different to the random ca- 
cophonies which arise from the tuning of the orchestra. 
Now, the power of complying with artistic conditions 
without being so preoccupied by them as to be incapable 
of thinking of anything else is hard to acquire, and can 
be perfected only by long practice. Talma estimated 
the apprenticeship at twenty years. ‘The habit can 
never become as instinctive as keeping one’s balance, 
for instance, because failure in that for even an in- 
stant means a fall, so that the practice in it is lifelong 
and constant; whereas the artistic habit lapses more or 
less in the absence of an audience, and even on the 
stage can be forgotten for long periods without any 
worse consequences than a loss of charm which noth- 
ing may bring to the actor’s attention. The real safe- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS = 207 


guard against such lapses is a sense of beauty — the 
artistic sense — cultivated to such a degree of sensi 
tiveness that a coarse or prosaic tone, or an awkward 
gesture, jars instantly on the artist as a note out of 
tune jars on the musician. ‘The defect of the old- 
fashioned systems of training for the stage was that 
they attempted to prescribe the conclusions of this 
constantly evolving artistic sense instead of cultivating 
it and leaving the artist to its guidance. Thus they 
taught you an old-fashioned stage-walk, an old-fash- 
ioned stage-voice, an old-fashioned stage way of kneel- 
ing, of sitting down, of shaking hands, of picking up 
a handkerchief, and so on, each of them supposed to 
be the final and perfect way of doing it. The end of 
that was, of course, to discredit training altogether. 
But neglect of training very quickly discredits itself; 
and it will now perhaps be admitted that the awaken- 
ing and culture of the artistic conscience is a real 
service which a teacher can render to an actor. When 
that conscience is thoroughly awakened and cultivated, 
when a person can maintain vigilant artistic sensitive- 
ness throughout a performance whilst making all the 
movements required by the action of a drama, and 
speaking all its dialogue graphically without preoccu- 
pation or embarrassment, then that person is a tech- 
nically competent artistic actor, able to play a part 
of which he hardly comprehends one line, in a play 
of which he knows nothing except his own words and 
speeches and the cues thereto, much more intelligibly 
and effectively, as well as agreeably, than a statesman 
with ten times his general ability could. He can only 
be beaten, in fact, by the professional rival who has 
equal skill in execution, but has more numerous and 
valuable ideas to execute. The finest actors — Jeffer- 


208 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


son, Coquelin, Salvini, Duse — carry this technical skill 
to such a point that though they act so beautifully that 
you cannot take your eyes off them even when you do 
not understand what they are saying, yet the beauty 
seems so spontaneous and inevitable that it is gen- 
erally quite impossible to persuade their admirers that 
there is any art or study in their acting at all. 

The effect on an ordinary man of making him sud- 
denly conscious of the artistic aspect of his movements 
and speech is to plunge him into a condition of terror 
and bewilderment in which he forgets how to do any- 
thing. It gives him stage fright, in short. Take a 
humble tradesman who has demolished his boiled mut- 
ton and turnips for half a century without misgiving. 
Invite him to meet a peer or two at dinner in Grosvenor 
Square, and he will refuse dish after dish because he no 
longer feels sure of how he ought to eat it. Take a 
lady who habitually talks the heads off all her acquaint- 
ances, and put her on a platform to make the simplest 
statement to an audience, and she will be struck dumb. 
The nervous agonies of the young have caused more 
discomfort in the world than the torments of the 
Inquisition. If this happens on the large stage of the 
world to people who have all had at least some social 
training, what must be the anguish of the wretch who, 
with his face absurdly painted, and dressed in out- 
landish costume that does not fit him, is thrust on 
a stage for the first time in his life to speak Elizabethan 
stage English as Rosencrantz or Guildenstern, or even 
to stand a mute courtier and look on at some fellow 
creature making the like horrible exhibition of himself! 

All this, however, presupposes that the victim has an 
artistic conscience, only just born and still blind. 
There are plenty of people who have either no artistic 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 209 


conscience at all or else one which is very easily satis- 
fied. Just as you have soldiers who are not frightened 
under fire because they have not imagination enough to 
conceive their danger, whilst your imaginative Napo- 
leon or Nelson turns pale, and your serene Goethe sees 
yellow, so there are debutters, both on the social and 
theatrical stage, who get through their ordeal easily 
because they are only imperfectly conscious of it. And 
there are happy people whose artistic conscience has 
always been awake, and to whom sufficient conscious 
grace and beauty to begin with are second nature. 
There is also the person with high animal spirits, a 
strong sense of fun, and a turn for mimicry. He, with 
an utterly unawakened artistic conscience, will flourish 
greatly at private theatricals, and sometimes also at 
public ones. With a good ear for musical pitch and 
tune and measure, and some physical agility, he will 
do excellently at the music-halls; but he very often 
has no ear to speak of; and then, incapable of sing- 
ing, dancing, fine diction or graceful movement, he de- 
lights himself with tomfoolery, and is hugely pleased 
with himself when the people laugh. And since the 
people do laugh, there is a constant tendency to sub- 
stitute tomfoolery for artistic comedy on the stage, 
since artistic comedians are in the nature of things 
much scarcer than buffoons. Then it is that the skilled 
critic must act as the watchdog of art, and begin to 
bark vigorously. Unfortunately, he can only bark: it 
is the manager who must bite. The artistic manager, as 
distinguished from the man who merely takes a theatre 
and puts up a play, is also a critic, and, knowing the dif- 
ference between finished stage execution and mere lark- 
ing, picks and drills his company accordingly. ‘That is 
how theatres come to have styles as well as individuals. 


210 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


The nature of my criticism of the Royalty perform- 
ance will now be intelligible. I do not deny that it is 
amusing — sometimes; but I do most emphatically 
deny that the performance, as a whole, has any artistic 
character. I go further: I sorrowfully profess my 
conviction, based on an attentive examination of the 
stage business, that the performers have been not only 
encouraged, but positively ordered, to clown as much 
as possible so as to keep the fun going and make the 
play lively. The back drawing-room has never pro- 
duced a company of comedians so intensely and osten- 
tatiously conscious of their own funniness. Squawk- 
ing voices, grinning faces, foolish antics, pervade the 
play to such an extent that though, as I have admitted 
(very magnanimously, believe me), the second act 
amused me, yet I could not face the third, having lost 
my old robust schoolboy appetite for large doses of 
that sort of merriment. The jar on my nerves began 
in “ Harmony,” a little play by Mr. Henry Arthur 
Jones, one of his early pieces, in which you can plainly 
see the feeling, imagination, and humor of the future 
author of “ The Crusaders ” and ‘‘ Rebellious Susan,” 
along with the stage asides and soliloquies of a cruder 
period. The gentleman who played the youthful lover 
in this nearly drove me out of my senses with his 
determination to be breezy and not to let the play 
down. His voice rattled and his figure bounded, until 
I gave up trying to imagine that I was looking at a 
scene in a primitive country parish, and fell to wonder- 
ing what quality over and above a cheerful effrontery 
can be needed to make any able-bodied young gentle- 
man into an actor in three weeks nowadays. Mr. King- 
horne hardly improved matters by doing his business 
as the blind organist in the safest of old stage styles, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 211 


piling it on and working it up tremendously, and never 
touching nature at any pomt. And Miss Ettie Wil- 
liams, pretty, self-possessed, and resolutely metropoli- 
tan, gave the final blow to the illusion. But it was 
not until “ The Chili Widow ” came on that I began 
to suspect that breeziness, and rattle, and intense comic 
consciousness were parts of the managerial policy. 
Mr. Bourchier seemed determined that there should be 
no mistake about our being there to make a regular 
evening of it; and it 1s possible that the profound de- 
pression into which this attitude naturally threw me 
—as I think it would any reasonable person — may 
have made me somewhat captious. At all events, I soon 
felt that I could willingly mow down the whole of that 
stage Home Office staff with a Maxim gun. It was 
not mere extravagance of caricature that annoyed me; 
for Mr. Blakeley and Miss Larkin, who are hardened 
veterans in broad caricature, managed their business 
smoothly and easily, and at least did not play the part 
of the audience as well by laughing at their own per- 
formances; whilst Miss Phillips clowned only when a 
silly part absolutely forced her to, and made the most 
of the rest. What was wrong with the performance 
was its persistent Philistinism. It 1s fortunate for Mr. 
Bourchicr and for Miss Violet and Miss Irene Van- 
brugh that they are such very pleasant people, and 
that the play is such an amusing play. Mr. Bourchier 
is a born comedian: he has ease, humor, geniality, and 
plenty of natural grace of speech and manner. Happy 
in these endowments, he insists on sharing the fun him- 
self, and is evidently quite persuaded that if all the 
others will only rattle along in the same careless way, 
the result will be as pleasant in their case as in his. 
He enjoys himself so robustly that the audience can- 


212 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


not help feeling good-humored. The very thoughtless- 
ness of his performance is an element in its popularity: 
one feels that a thoroughly healthy person never thinks. 
Miss Violet Vanbrugh is very attractive; but she is 
much more conscious of Miss Violet Vanbrugh than of 
her part: in other words, she lacks conviction. The 
fact is, she is not a comedian: all this man-killmg 
archness does not belong to her: one sees that it is 
only her fun, not her nature; and the result is, not 
an artist at work, but a pretty lady at play, a spec- 
tacle always agreeable, but not to the purpose of the 
connoisseur in dramatic art. Miss Irene Vanbrugh has 
more genuine comic force, and is better fitted in her 
part; but as far as I saw the play she only appeared 
in the first act, which might with great advantage be 
cut out. Mr. Kinghorne plays the office-keeper much 
more naturally than the organist in the first piece, and 
much more entertainingly. ‘The others funnify their 
parts more or less blatantly, the whole ill-concerted 
attempt to produce a facetious atmosphere without any 
reference to the finer artistic conditions being, as I 
have said, discordant and amateurish. Even the audi- 
ence struck me as a somewhat unsophisticated, not to 
say chuckleheaded one; but I am glad to be able to 
add that it was numerous and well pleased. It had the 
air of having at last discovered a play which was better 
fun than a smoking concert. 

On a point of pronunciation may I be allowed to 
say that Ballymacklerush, with a strong stress on the 
rush, is a credible Irish name, but that Bally McKill- 
rush, with the stress on the kill, is impossible. The 
only safe rule about the pronunciation of an Irish 
name is that whatever way comes naturally to an Eng- 
lishman is quite certain to be the wrong way. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 213 


MORE MASTERPIECES 


The Rise of Dick Hallward: a new play in three acts. 
By Jerome K. Jerome. Garrick Theatre, 19 October, 
1895. 


’ N YITH every possible disposition to tolerate all 
views of life on the stage, I cannot quite keep 

my patience with the pessimism of Mr. Jerome 

K. Jerome and his school. I can endure, for a strictly 
limited time, the splenetic, cynical pessimist, who lashes 
and satirizes the abundant follies and weaknesses of 
mankind to excuse himself for giving it up as a bad 
job. But your maudlin pessimist who, like Mr. Jerome 
K. Jerome, says, “ We are all hopeless scoundrels; so 
let us be kind and gentle to one another”: him J find 
it hard to bear. Mr. Jerome’s hero, Dick Hallward, is 
called Dick because that is a less harsh term than 
Richard. A judge might say, ‘“ Richard Hallward: 
after a patient trial, and upon evidence which must 
convince every reasonable person of the justice of the 
verdict, you have been found guilty of one of the 
meanest frauds that has ever come before a court of 
law. By selling your professional honor and robbing 
your friend at one stroke, you have shown yourself 
void alike of character in your public capacity and 
of feeling in your private relations. You are a dis- 
honest and worthless fellow; and the sentence of the 
court is,” etc., etc. Not thus Mr. Jerome K. Jerome. 
He grasps the culprit’s hand, and, in a voice husky 
with emotion, says: “ Dick, old chap, not another word 
about that money. Not a man of us but would have 
done just as you did, Heaven help us, if we got the 


214 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


chance. You were tempted, and you fell; but you 
sent £5 to your sisters when you were poor; you never 
had a hard word for the housemaid at your chambers; 
and in the sterling simplicity of your heart you hid 
your pipe and slippers in the coal-scuttle when you had 
lady visitors. How many of us would do as much? 
You have sinned; but you have suffered; and it was 
love that led you astray. Let the cold world say what 
it will, you shall have a happy ending, Dick, dear old 
man. God bless you, Dick, God bless you. Go and 
live happily ever after. It’s unmanly to — dash it, 
I think Ill go and smoke a pipe outside, if you don’t 
mind, Dick.”? Ibsen might have been a rich man to-day 
if he had only taken that view of things. Perhaps, 
however, it is only fair that it should bring dramatic 
authors money; for it will assuredly not bring them 
anything else. 

A criminal is not necessarily a despieable person. 
The man who is strongly, ably, egotistically and there- 
fore self-respectingly wicked may be crowned or hung, 
as the case may be, according to his failure or success ; 
but he is not despised. The only one insufferable and 
unpardonable thing for a criminal to do is to confess 
before he is found out. When a man gocs to a 
police station and gives himself up for an undiscovered 
murder, the first uncontrollable impulse of every 
healthy person is one of impatient exasperation with 
a fool who cannot bear his cross and hold his tongue, 
but must tear open a healed wound for the sake of hav- 
ing his miserable conscience soothed by the hangman. 
Mr. Jerome K. Jerome, by way of carrying to its 
possible extreme his pessimistic theory that the baser 
a man is, the more intensely human and sympathetic 
he is, completes the infamy of Dick Hallward by mak- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 215 


ing him volunteer a quite exceptionally gratuitous and 
dastardly confession at the moment when he believes 
he is going to commit suicide by taking his father’s 
patent headache cure. Under such circumstances a 
man with any decency left in him would surely make a 
stage will leaving his property to the person he had 
robbed of it, and then slip quietly overboard, so to 
speak. But Hallward cannot deny himself a dram of 
sympathy at the price of leaving everybody disgusted, 
ashamed, and miserably uncomfortable. He pours the 
headache cure into a tumbler (by the way, it is quite 
a genuine cure, and may be relied on not only for 
headache, but for ailments of all kinds — nineteen drops 
of hydrocyanic acid), and summons to his presence 
his two most intimate friends, one of whom, it is 
hardly necessary to say, 1s the youth whose inheritance 
he has stolen. His own betrothed and that of the 
young man are also sent for. He then baldly con- 
fesses; and the play immediately collapses like a punc- 
tured tire, Mr. Jerome’s stagecraft collapsing visibly 
with it. For the unhappy four witnesses of the con- 
fession are so totally unequal to the occasion that they 
simply drift off the stage one after another flabber- 
gasted, only one of them having the presence of mind 
to explain that he must go and think about it a little 
before committing himself. Fortunately for Mr. 
Jerome, the five parties to this unexampled ‘stage 
effect were artists no less popular than Miss Marion 
Terry, Miss Annie Hughes, Mr. Willard, Mr. Esmond, 
and Mr. Barnes. If Mr. Jerome will try it at the 
Independent Theatre with five comparatively unknown 
performers, he will probably be made acutely conscious 
of his own originality. When the disabled quartet had 
melted from the gaze of a dumbfounded audience, Hall- 


216 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ward proceeded to bid the world farewell and raise the 
headache cure to his lips. We all remembered how, in 
“The Dancing Girl,” when Mr. Tree was in the like 
extremity, Miss Norreys slid down the banisters and 
seized the fatal goblet at the last moment. We were 
therefore not surprised to-see Miss Marion Terry come 
back. Since it was Miss Terry’s objection to marrying 
a man with less than five thousand a year that had 
given Dick his excuse for his crime, the attitude of pure 
derision in which we should otherwise have contemplated 
the heroine’s reappearance was suspended in view of 
the possibility that the play might after all end heroi- 
cally by the lady msisting on sharing the poison, and 
the two dying together by their own condemnation, 
Rosmersholmwise. But Mr. Jerome knew better than 
that. Miss Terry did her duty according to Mr. 
Jerome’s lights — the footlights. She weaned her lover 
from his fell purpose, and promised to go across the 
seas with him and begin a new life regardless of income. 
At which unspeakable crisis of Mr. Jerome’s attempt to 
hold the mirror up to nature, the curtain fell. 

I find it very hard to believe that Mr. Jerome in 
writing this play, or Mr. Willard in producing it, had 
any other object than to make money in the cheapest 
possible way. So hard, in fact, that I shall not try 
to believe it. No doubt I shall be told that 


“The drama’s laws the drama’s patrons give; 
And those who live to please must please to live.” 


But you cannot get out of an argument by simply tell- 
ing a lie in a heroic couplet. The drama’s laws the 
drama’s patrons do not give, nor ever can give: that is 
the prerogative of the dramatist, and of the dramatist 
alone. Nor need anybody “ please to live”: on the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 217 


contrary, the person who is willing to do anything to 
please everybody is a universally and deservedly de- 
spised and disastrous person. ‘The public cannot do 
without the theatre; and the actor and the dramatist 
are therefore in a position to insist on honorable terms. 
The managers who are at present flinging all profes- 
sional honor and artistic faith to the winds by com- 
peting with one another as to who shall secure the 
vulgarest and foolishest play are no more under any 
compulsion to do so than Sir Henry Irving is to 
swallow swords, balance straws on his nose, or bounce 
up through star-traps. Suppose Sir Henry were to 
join the ignoble scramble after big pecuniary successes, 
and to abandon the comparatively high ground on 
which he is now securely planted, what would be the 
result? Only that on the low ground he would be 
easily beaten by the music-halls; so that he would 
debauch his audiences only to lose them. That is just 
what too many of our managers are doing at the 
present time. They deliberately select melodramas of 
the Surrey and Marylebone types, and engage first- 
rate performers to present them at west end houses 
at west end prices. In due course these pieces are 
sent “on tour” through the provinces. Now “ the 
provinces ” include suburban London; and at this very 
moment the peopvle who like shoddy melodrama are 
waking up to the fact that if they do their playgoing 
at the suburban houses, they can see, at reasonable 
prices, exactly the same plays as they are now paying 
exorbitant prices to see worse acted at west end houses. 
Take this play of Mr. Jerome’s, “The Rise of Dick 
Hallward.” The part of Dick, from its ridiculous invo- 
cation of Mephistopheles in the first act to its sham 
farewell to earth in the last, is arrant fustian, better 


218 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


than the fustian of twenty years ago, no doubt, but 
still, judged by the literary and artistic standards of 
to-day, very sorry fustian. Mr. Willard does not play 
it more effectively than a strong transpontine leading 
man would: he plays it less effectively. As to Miss 
Marion Terry, I could name half a dozen young ladies, 
not to be compared to her for a moment in artistic 
power and accomplishment, who might replace her with 
advantage as the heroine. The part in her hands is 
only a bad misfit. Miss Hughes, Mr. Esmond, and the 
rest are equally, if less grotesquely, thrown away on 
their parts. ‘“‘ The Prude’s Progress” was far more 
successfully represented, not only because it was a 
better play, but because it had a weaker cast. When 
The Rise of Dick Hallward” is performed by actors 
just fit for the class of people to whose level the play 
has been written down, it will go ten times better than 
it does at the Garrick, although the sums paid to the 
leading performers will be less by about five-sixths. 

In Mr. Oscar Wilde’s “ Ideal Husband ” there was 
a remarkable scene in which the fraudulent Cabinet 
Minister reproached his wife with idealizing and wor- 
shipping his moral virtues instead of loving his very 
self as he loves her. This so exactly suits Mr. Jerome’s 
sentimental pessimism that he flourishes it in a crude 
state all over his love scenes. The lady reproves Dick 
for loving her in spite of her demerits: he replies by 
laboriously explaining Mr. Oscar Wilde’s point to her, 
thereby very effectually reducing it to absurdity. For- 
tunately for the play, Mr. Jerome has a vein of shrewd 
fun, and has discovered that in working the familiar 
but safe stage trick of dénowement by coincidence, the 
long arm cannot be too long, in spite of the certainty 
that the critics will immediately fill up their notices 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 219 


with futile complaints of improbability. So what with 
Mr. Jerome’s jokes, and his manipulation of a camera 
and a microscope, the play passes the time. But it 
is as much inferior to ** The Prude’s Progress ” as that 
play, I hope, will prove to Mr. Jerome’s next. 


THE NEW MAGDALEN AND THE 
OLD 


The New Magdalen. By Wilkie Collins. (Revival.) 
Theatre Metropole, 28 October, 1895. 


portance is a phenomenon which I have been 

expecting for many years. If the suburban 
population went to the theatre with anything like the 
assiduity with which it goes to church and chapel, I 
should not have had so long to wait. Even now there 
are districts of London, larger than many German 
towns which have their theatre and their grand ducal 
opera-house, where the inhabitants must come to the 
Strand district to find a theatre tolerable by people 
of the most moderate culture. But the signs of change 
in this respect are thickening. Whilst west end man- 
agement is getting more and more desperately pre- 
carious, theatres like the Grand at Islington, the Lyric 
at Ealing, and the Metropole at Camberwell appar- 
ently prosper steadily. Still, until this week, I had 
never been invited by a suburban manager to a first 
night, because the suburban manager has usually noth- 
ing to show except a piece already produced and criti- 
cized at a west end theatre. Now, however, Mr. 


DP x0 rise of the suburban theatre into artistic im- 


220 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Mulholland, the manager of the Metropole, has taken 
a step forward by producing a play on his own ac- 
count, the said play being no less a work than Wilkie 
Collins’s “ New Magdalen,” in which the late Ada 
Cavendish became famous twenty years ago. “It is 
a curious fact in connection with the recent craze for 
problem and sex plays,” says Mr. Mulholland, in a little 
manifesto circulated last Monday night in his theatre, 
“that the bold initiation of Wilkie Collins in this re- 
spect has been practically ignored, The existence alike 
of such a work as ‘The New Magdalen,’ and the cre- 
ation of Mercy Merrick in this relation, has never 
been adequately acknowledged. It 1s im some sense 
with a view to showing the influence of this work on the 
so-called ‘new movement’ in dramatic literature, and 
placing dramatic facts in their true perspective, that 
the present revival has been undertaken.” 

On that let me say, respectfully but firmly, that 
‘The New Magdalen” is no more a modern “ sex 
play ” than Mercy Merrick is a real Magdalen, or, for 
the matter of that, a real woman. Mercy is the old- 
fashioned man made angel-woman. She is only techni- 
cally a liar, an impostor, and a prostitute; for the loss 
of her reputation occurs through no fault of her own; 
and the fraud by which she attempts to recover her 
place in society is so contrived as to seem quite harm- 
less when she enters on it. Mercy is interesting, not 
because she is specifically feminine, or what Lombroso 
calls “sexually psychopathic,” but because certain 
ideally and nobly human impulses are personified in 
her; so that she gains our sympathies in spite of incon- 
sistent and improbable circumstances. ‘To invent such 
an ideal figure; to thrust her into a refuge by a string 
of novelist-manufactured accidents, and then bring on 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 221 


a Christian Socialist clergyman to raise her up and 
hail her as “the noblest of God’s creatures ” before 
an audience perfectly well aware that the typical 
women in our refuges are not in the least like her 
except in point of the susceptibility to sentimental 
sermons and the superficially amiable emotional facility 
which are only the symptoms of their weakness of char- 
acter — to do all this was not to anticipate “‘ the new 
movement,” but to provoke it. Where Wilkie Collins 
teally struck the new movement was in his sketch of 
the Reverend Julian Grey, who might have been a 
stagey forecast of the Reverend Stewart Headlam, 
though he was probably a reminiscence of some earlier 
pioneer of Christian Socialism. You will find hundreds 
of such parsons now: in fact, the Guild of St. Matthew 
is a Guild of St. Julian Grey. The scene in which 
Julian Gray describes all the little sallies by which he 
horrifies his bishop already falls flat because by this 
time the bishop himself might perpetrate them all, and 
worse, without scandalizing anybody. 

The stage has moved as well as the world since Ada 
Cavendish created Mercy Merrick. Then “ The New 
Magdalen” was a fashionable and well-made piece: 
to-day its innumerable asides and soliloquies, each more 
absurd and impossible than the last, are quite out of 
the question. In other respects it is still a strong play 
as plays go, hugely superior to the modern work of 
Messrs. Carton, Frith, and Jerome, but presenting the 
fatal disqualification from the point of view of the 
west end manager of to-day that it requires acting, 
and powerful acting, too. It is a significant fact that 
the return of “The New Magdalen” to the London 
stage has involved the return of Miss Janet Achurch, 
the only tragic actress of genius we now possess. After 


222 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


seeing Miss Achurch in the third act of “ The New 
Magdalen,” I quite understand why she has not re- 
cently been let loose in modern plays. ‘The other 
evening even the comparatively quiet and adaptable 
talent of Miss Marion Terry, in spite of all her tact 
and charm, nearly knocked “ Dick Hallward” to pieces ; 
and I hardly expect to see Miss Terry on the stage 
again except on occasions when the supply of ladies 
who can be depended on not to act runs short. Miss 
Winifred Fraser, the English creator of Ibsen’s Hedwig 
Ekdal, was cautiously admitted on that occasion as a 
Temple laundress, in which capacity she could hardly 
do much harm. What would happen to a play of the 
* Dick Hallward” class with Miss Achurch in it is 
hardly to be imagined — it is like trying to conceive 
a successful gunpowder plot. ‘The supreme test of 
tragic acting is that indescribable disturbance of soul 
in which the spectator finds himself when the curtam 
comes down, a sensation from which I have usually 
found myself perfectly safe in London theatres except 
when Duse is at large here. How Miss Achurch man- 
aged to produce it with the execrable support she had, I 
do not know — it is hardly too much to say that in the 
most difficult scenes every speech of hers was followed 
by some ineptitude or obvious blunder which reduced 
the whole play to absurdity until she rescued it again 
— but she certainly did produce it. Three magnificent 
strokes in particular remain vividly in my memory: the 
gleam of rage through the hungry tenderness of her 
demand to Horace Holmcroft whether his love for her 
would stand the test of the loss of her social position; 
her annihilation of Grace Roseberry with the contemp- 
tuous “‘mad, you ’re mad,” the words striking the woman 
in the fact like a hammer; and the superb movement 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 223 


with which she swept herself to the feet of Julian Grey 
as the penitent Magdalen. This last would have been 
a fine piece of art even if there had been anything 
resembling a Julian Grey on the stage. As there was 
nothing but an unfortunate gentleman who was not 
within a fortnight of knowing his part, and not within 
five years of being able for it, the feat was all but 
miraculous. Miss Achurch actually persuaded the 
audience, between her efforts to prompt him, that he 
was acting rather well; and after one memorable scene, 
during which she had borne him with a strong hand 
through a troubled ocean of forgetfulness, unprepared- 
ness, inexpertness, and general ignominy and confusion, 
he received a hearty round of applause from an audi- 
ence which rightly felt that he had been taking part 
in a very powerfully acted scene. Comparing Miss 
Achurch’s play in this third act, and in the first act 
at the point where the possibility of impersonating 
Grace Roseberry first strikes her, with the few squalls 
of temper which made Mrs. Tanqueray’s reputation, I 
am compelled to admit that our playgoing digestion 
has been rather weak of late. 

For all that, the New Magdalen is not her old self 
at the Metropole, and never can, perhaps, be her old 
self again. When Ada Cavendish made her great suc- 
cess in it, she did no violence to the author. She gath- 
ered sympathy, first as the good hospital nurse on the 
battlefield, and then as the nice young lady at Mable- 
thorpe House, quite as Wilkie Collins meant her to. 
Even the memorable fit of hysterics which swept away 
the audiences of the seventies with the undercurrent of 
rich, passionate, indignant emotion which was Ada 
Cavendish’s chief gift, was ladylike in its form and con- 
ventional in its symptoms. But Miss Achurch belongs 


224 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


to an age which has httle sympathy with the doves, 
soiled or unsoiled, of the age of Wilkie Collins. Mercy 
Merrick and ‘Tom Hood’s drowned young lady “ fash- 
ioned so slenderly; young, and so fair ” were not rebels 
against society: they were its victims, always convey- 
ing a faint suggestion that they were probably the 
daughters of distressed clergymen. And as victims, 
they were pitied. What has happened since is that we 
have changed sides to a great extent; and though we 
may not all care to say so, yet it is the rebel against 
society who interests us; and we want to see the rebel 
triumphant rather than crushed or reconciled, conven- 
tional society being just now in the pillory as a col- 
lective fool with whom we have lost patience. Miss 
Achurch, as might be expected from an actress who 
became famous as Nora Helmer in “ A Doll’s House,” 
presents Mercy Merrick as rebel rather than victim. 
Middle-aged playgoers will still remember the deep con- 
viction and pathos of Ada Cavendish’s “I can’t get 
back: I can’t get back” (into society), when she 
told her story at the beginning of the play. Miss 
Achurch made no such effect in this line: the effort of 
trying to imagine a woman in the honorable employ- 
ment and heroic activity of Florence Nightingale, 
yearning like the Peri at the gate of paradise for a 
permanent situation as parlormaid in a respectably 
prejudiced family, was too much for her; and the 
once famous line came out almost with suppressed im- 
patience and contempt. I can as easily conceive a 
tigress settling down in a dairy as Miss Achurch’s 
Mercy Merrick domesticating herself with Lady Janet 
Roy, and receiving an offer of marriage from such a 
sample of good form as Mr. Horace Holmcroft. She 
has dignity and charm, but not the dignity and charm 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS) 225 


that Lady Janet would have recognized or liked: she 
has tenderness, but not quite the tenderness that soothes 
the fevered brow of the wounded soldier of the stage. 
She reproduced for me an old experience of the days 
when, as a musical critic, I gained from contact with 
great works and a living art the knowledge I am now 
losing and the finely traimed sense I am now blunting 
in our silly and vulgar theatres. Just as Giula 
Ravogli first, and then Calve, in the exuberance of 
their dramatic talent, wrecked an innocently pretty 
opera by suddenly springing upon the delicate romance 
of Bizet’s and Prosper Mérimée’s fancy the worthless, 
fierce, sensual, reckless, rapscallionly Carmen of real 
life, so, precisely, has Miss Achurch taken this inno- 
cent old figment of Wilkie Collins’s benevolent and 
chivalrous imagination, and played into it a grim truth 
that it was never meant to bear — played it against the 
audience, so that the curious atmosphere of reluctance 
and remonstrance from which Calve used to wring the 
applause of the huge audiences at Covent Garden when 
the curtain fell on her Carmen, arose more than once 
when Miss Achurch disturbed and appalled us at mo- 
ments when Ada Cavendish, looking at the part from 
an older point of view, would have soothed and pleased 
us. Only, Miss Achurch, unlike Calve in Carmen, pre- 
served the heroic element in Mercy’s character. The 
clergyman’s line, when her betrothed repudiates her, 
“Horace: I pity you,” had its full value. 

This incongruity between the New Woman and the 
Old was accentuated in an irresistibly comic way by 
the representative of Grace Roseberry, an actress with 
apparently no idea of any part but that of the heroine 
of a popular melodrama. Grace Roseberry is, from the 
professional point of view, an excellent part. Detest- 


226 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


able as she is made to appear by her utter lack of 
charity, this odious defect of hers is dramatically so 
important at the crisis of the play, that an actress who 
plays the part forcibly and faithfully can make her- 
self remembered as surely as Mercy Merrick herself 
can. Unfortunately the Grace Roseberry at the Metro- 
pole, a young lady with a promising appearance and 
temperament, to which she has added nothing except a 
presentable diction and a meaningless mannerism or 
two, proved so deficient in dramatic intelligence as 
actually to play for the sympathy of the audience, 
thereby not only destroying her own opportunity, but 
disabling the play at its most critical points to an 
extent which would have ensured a disastrous failure 
if Miss Achurch had not been sufficiently powerful to 
create the illusion which her incompetent colleague was 
feebly contradicting. The effect at the end of the 
second act (counting the prologue as the first), when 
Miss Achurch was not on the stage, nearly upset the 
whole performance. Grace Roseberry, instead of enter- 
ing so as to make every one hate her instinctively at 
once, thereby excusing her cool reception by Lady 
Janet, came in pale, slow, and pathetic, only needing 
a patch of snow on her cloak, and a sentimental strain 
from the band, to draw tears from the gallery as the 
long-lost, cruelly wronged heroine. As it was, they 
waxcd indignant at Lady Janet’s inhuman coldness to 
this sweet young creature. The curtain descended on 
Grace Roseberry, the one unsympathetic female char- 
acter in the play, as its heroine, and all the sympathetic 
characters as brutal and uppish conspirators against 
an innocent maiden’s happiness. She was loudly ap- 
plauded amid the suppressed convulsions of the critics 
who knew the play, and what was coming in the next 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS) 227 


act. But it must have been extremely poor fun for 
Miss Achurch, who had to fight her way all through 
her great act against this silly blunder, instead of hav- 
ing its most powerful situation perfectly prepared for 
her, and needing only the touch of the match to the 
gunpowder, as Ada Cavendish always had. 

Miss Ada Neilson as Lady Janet, and Mr. Herbert 
Pearson as Horace Holmcroft, knew their parts, and 
got steadily and competently, if not very brilliantly, 
through them. But the play was in a desperately un- 
prepared condition. In spite of a busy prompter, and 
considerable activity in that direction by Miss Achurch, 
appalling and irretrievable omissions occurred. A 
stupid cut in the first act, spoiling the introduction of 
Mercy’s narrative, was, I am afraid, intentional. The 
stage-manager managed to get the curtain up and down 
punctually; but that was all. Grace Roseberry had to 
wait a long and weary time for the shell that was to 
strike her down; and when, after loud and long re- 
monstrances by the authorities behind the scenes, the 
catastrophe at last came tardily off, the window was 
blown in first, and the shell exploded afterwards. I 
hope I have made it clear that my disposition towards 
the suburban theatre is altogether friendly. 


228 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


TRILBY AND “L’AMI DES FEMMES” 


Trilby: an entertainment in four acts based by Paul 
Potter on Du Maurier’s novel. Haymarket Theatre, 
80 October, 1895. 

The Squire of Dames. Adapted from “ L’Ami des 
Femmes” of Dumas fils by R. C. Carton. Criterion 
Theatre, 5 November, 1895. 


dramatic criticism, not having read “‘ Trilby,”’ ex- 

plain that they were not lazy, but that they felt 
bound to present their minds in the condition of a tabula 
rasa to the Haymarket performance. Now I am lazy; 
and I never read anything; yet I have read “ Trilby ” 
and enjoyed it greatly. It is a no mere novel with illus- 
trations; it is a homogeneous work of art in which the 
master, like a composer who sets his own poem to 
music, shows us his people by the art of the draughts- 
man, and tells us their story by the art of the fabulist. 
What Thackeray, with his enslaved mind and clumsy 
hand, tried to do in vain, is here brought happily off 
by the pleasantest of free-thinkers and the most charm- 
ing of artists. Oddly enough, the successful artist has 
taken the unsuccessful one for his model, greatly im- 
proving on him in every respect save one: to wit, 
honesty. Thackeray saved his reputation and forced 
his oppressive books like sentences of penal servitude 
on the reading public by telling the truth in spite of 
himself. He may protest against it, special plead 
against it, exaggerate the extenuating circumstances, 
be driven into pessimism by it; but it comes raging and 
snivelling out of him, all the same, within the limit of 


I OBSERVE that some of my honored colleagues in 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 229 


his sense of decency. He exhausts all his feeble pathos 
in trying to make you sorry for the death of Colonel 
Newcome, imploring you to regard him as a noble- 
hearted gentleman instead of an insufferable old fool, 
developing into a mischievous old swindler; but he gives 
you the facts about him faithfully. Nothing can be 
more pitiable than Thackeray chuckling over his poor 
little stroke of genius in making Becky Sharp admire 
Rawdon Crawley when he assaults Lord Steyne, in 
which stroke he shows about as much knowledge of 
Becky-Sharpness as Prosper Merimée’s dragoon did 
when he went to Carmen to boast how he killed her 
hateful old husband-proprietor in single combat by a 
clever knife thrust. ‘ You fool,” said Carmen: “ your 
thrust is all stuff. Why couldn’t you buy me 
honestly? He’d have sold me for fifteen shillings.” 
Rawdon Crawley’s figure would have been higher; but 
he would have sold Becky for all that. Still worse is 
Thackeray’s exultation over the success with which 
Major Pendennis quells the rebellion of his wretched 
valet; and there is something pathetically foolish in 
his attempt to convince himself that his pulses stirred 
at the thought of Waterloo, and in his absolutely sin- 
cere sense of the international gravity of a newspaper 
paragraph stating that a certain letter written from 
abroad was, “strange to say, on club paper” (im- 
plying the unspeakably awful accusation against a west 
end clubman of putting a quire of that commodity into 
his portmanteau). But he tells you no lies; and if you 
want to know Rawdon Crawley and Major Pendennis 
as they appeared to their own set, and their servants 
as they appeared to their masters, there they are, as 
no artist-author could ever give them to you. 

Mr. du Maurier, on the other hand, has all the 


230 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


artist’s charm, and all his dishonesty. His Taffy is an 
attempt at the Colonel-Newcome-Dobbin sympathy 
catcher; but Mr. du Maurier does not tell you the 
truth about Taffy, except for a moment when his pro- 
fessional point of honor is touched, when he is con- 
strained to confess that Taffy was an impostor in art. 
There is not a character in the book which is not 
obviously drawn to please the author’s imagination. 
For all we know, George Eliot may have been the 
original of Trilby: at all events, if she really had 
been, he would have altered her age and her face and 
her circumstances and profession in just the same way 
to please himself and please us. If I want to respect 
Thackeray, I must think of his veracity and forget his 
workmanship: if I would respect Mr. du Maurier, I 
must think of his workmanship and forget his veracity. 
I know well that there never was any such person as 
Trilby — that she is a man’s dream; but I am a man 
myself, and delight in her. Happily, truth and good- 
nature do not always clash. I am convinced as well 
as touched by Little Billee with the dead heart, going 
about and making himself affectionately agreeable in 
his remorse for being secretly unable to care for any- 
body. And I like an imagination without gall, to 
which poor Svengali is not a villain, but only a poor 
egotistical wretch who provokes people to pull his nose, 
although he has better grounds for egotism than any 
one else in the book except Little Billee and Trilby (I 
must except the adorable Trilby). Besides, the philos- 
ophy of the book is humane and enlightened: Mr. du 
Maurier is not afraid to write of religion and morals 
and the nude in art just as he would speak of them in 
the society of people whom he respects. 

“Trilby ” is the very thing for the English stage 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 231 


at present. No need to act or create character: noth- 
ing to do but make up after Mr. du Maurier’s familiar 
and largely popular drawings, and be applauded before 
uttering a word as dear old Taffy, or the Laird, or 
darling Trilby, or horrid Svengali. Mr. Paul Potter 
has done his business with considerable knowledge of 
what was wanted of him, especially by the actor-man- 
ager. Nearly all the favorite pictures and passages 
from the book are worked in, without violence, if possi- 
ble, but at all events worked in. Thus, though the play 
ends with Trilby’s death, Gecko is allowed to have his 
“Ich habe geliebt und gelebet ” in the third act. Stull, 
let nobody suppose that the play gives any idea of 
the book. Imagine Trilby, the incarnation of womanly 
sympathy, with Baratier and Besson and old Monsieur 
Penque cut out of her record for the sake of making 
a correct young English girl of her! Imagine Little 
Billee pared down and painted up into the most futile 
of “juvenile leads”! Imagine, above all, Svengah 
taken seriously at his own foolish valuation, blazed 
upon with limelights, spreading himself intolerably over 
the whole play with nothing fresh to add to the first 
five minutes of him — Svengali defying heaven, declar- 
ing that henceforth he is his own God, and then tum- 
bling down in a paroxysm of heart disease (the blas- 
phemer rebuked, you see), and having to be revived by 
draughts of brandy. I derived much cynical amuse- 
ment from this most absurd scene; but if I were Mr. 
du Maurier, I should ask whether the theatre is really 
in such an abject condition that all daintiness and 
seriousness of thought and feeling must be struck out 
of a book, and replaced by vulgar nonsense before it 
can be accepted on the stage. I grant that the public 
deserves nothing better from Mr. Tree. It has done 


232 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


its silly best to teach him that it wants none of his 
repeated and honorable attempts to cater for people 
with some brains. But surely even the public would 
just as soon — nay, rather — have the original Sven- 
gali, the luckless artist-cad (a very deplorable type of 
cad, whom Mr. du Maurier has hit off to the life), un- 
derstanding neither good manners nor cleanliness, al- 
ways presuming, and generally getting snubbed and 
nose-pulled and bullied, but taking Trilby’s headache 
into his own elbows and making a great artist of her. 
Mr. Tree began excellently with this: why, then, should 
he absurdly decline into the stagey, the malignant, the 
diabolic, the Wandering-Jewish, and vainly endeavor to 
make our flesh creep, besides making the play one act 
too long? No doubt Mr. Potter, familiar with the 
ways of the American actor-manager, wrote the part 
for Mr. Tree as he thought Mr. Tree would lke it. 
But he spoiled the book and very nearly spoiled the 
play in doing it. 

With the exception of the sham serious episodes, 
“ Trilby ” is very bright and pleasant. ‘There is no 
acting in it to speak of: Miss Rosina Filippi alone 
gets in a stroke of genuine art in the owvreuse scene. 
Miss Baird’s Trilby is a very pretty performance by 
a very pretty girl; but it is no more possible to base 
an estimate of her future on it than it was on the 
early performances of Miss Mary Anderson or Miss 
Dorothy Dene. The older ladies in the audience, dat- 
ing from the age of reclining boards and straight backs, 
were of opinion that Miss Baird carried herself too 
creepily; and I will not deny that there may be some 
truth in this. As to Mr. Tree, I should no more dream 
of complimenting him on the Svengali business than Sir 
Henry Irving on “ A Hero of Waterloo.” The studio, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 233 


the quadrille, Zouzou and Dodor, and all the rest of it, 
are great fun; and although the whole affair not only 
adds nothing to the merit of Mr. du Maurier’s original 
production of the book and the drawings, but steals a 
good deal from it, I imagine that every one will enjoy 
a visit to the Haymarket just now. Let me, however, 
warn musicians that they will find Schubert represented 
by the notoriously spurious “ Addio.” 

At the Criterion Mr. Wyndham has resumed his 
exhibitions of acting, an art now become so rare that 
people flock to see him, no matter what the play may 
be. This time, however, he has a tolerably good part 
—that of De Ryons in “ L’Ami des Femmes,” trans- 
muted by Mr. Carton into Mr. Kilroy in “ The Squire 
of Dames.’ ‘ L’Ami des Femmes ” is a bad play with 
good material in it. The material is what we now call 
Ibsenite: the technique is that of Scribe. In it, ac- 
cordingly, we have serious characters philosophically 
discussing themselves and one another quite undra- 
matically in long speeches, and at the same time sense- 
lessly carrying on an irrelevant comedy of intrigue of 
the old kind in five “ well-made” acts. The dialogue 
and characterization of “ Emperor or Galilean ” tacked 
on to the action of “Cheer, boys, Cheer” would 
not be a whit more incongruous. De Ryons 1s a high- 
minded, chivalrous, delicate gentleman-philosopher im 
theory, in practice a busy-body and go-between — 
Benedick and Figaro in one. De Montégre talks like 
Hernani, and behaves like the weak, vain fop in 
Thackeray’s “ Vanity Fair ” (Osborne, if I recollect 
aright), who was shot at Waterloo. And soon. Mr. 
Carton had therefore not merely to adapt the piece 
from French to English life, but to get rid of its 
incongruities and make a fairly homogeneous, compact 


234 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


drama of it. Necessarily, he has done this by discard- 
ing the serious side of the characterization, and re- 
taining only that which is proper to the ignoble and 
commonplace action, since if he had taken the alterna- 
tive course, he must have provided the piece with a 
different action — in short, written a new play, which 
was not what he was commissioned to do. He has not 
done his work consistently — Mr. Carton never does 
anything consistently: a certain pleasant scatter-brain- 
edness is of the very essence of his talent. He has 
retained a good deal that belongs to the side of the 
play which he has discarded, and has discarded some 
things (in Leverdet’s part, for example) which would 
strengthen the side which he has retained. This incon- 
sequence has landed him in four acts where three would 
have sufficed; in dull and vague parts for Miss Mary 
Moore and Mr. Bernard Gould; and here and there 
in a speech producing an effect belonging to the origi- 
nal play and not to the adaptation. Occasionally he 
does not take the trouble to adapt: he translates 
literally. In the original, Jane tells De Ryons that 
she detests him, to which he replies coolly, “ @a pas- 
sera,” the equivalent of which, I take it, is “ Ah, you 
will get over that.” Mr. Carton has made Mr. Wynd- 
ham say “That will pass,” a perfectly impossible 
speech for an Englishman, except when giving his 
opinion of a doubtful coin. Another speech of Mr. 
Wyndham, in his great scene with Zoé Nuggetson, 
‘What game are we playing at?” is an excellent 
school-girl translation of “ Queljeujouons-nous, made- 
moiselle? ” but it is not what an Englishman would say 
under such circumstances. 

The acting is a good deal better than most theatres 
provide at present. Mr. Wyndham’s success as De 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 235 


Ryons Kilroy is genuine and unprepared. No books 
have been written about his part; no pictures of his 
make-up and attitudes have been circulated; no pre- 
liminary conversations between the other characters 
give the audience’s imagination its cue. Mr. Wynd- 
ham goes to work as the curtain rises, and creates his 
character by pure acting. There was no leaning on 
stage tricks and effects which any experienced actor 
could produce, nor any of that feeble need of being 
constantly played to by the rest, which is so often put 
down to the vanity of the actor-manager, though it is 
really due to his incompetence. Mr. Wyndham is al- 
ways playing to somebody, and getting double value out 
of it, for himself as actor and artist, by making the 
most of his own part, and for himself as manager by 
getting the most out of the fellow-artist whose salary 
he pays. Everybody acts better at the Criterion than 
at most other theatres; and yet Mr. Wyndham, 
whether he has the worst part in the piece, as in 
** The Home Secretary,” or the best, as in the present 
instance, comes out further ahead than the actor- 
managers who obviously dread competition. Miss 
Mary Moore, though much on the stage, has no part 
and no chance. The proud, half Greek Jane de Sime- 
rose, so ill prepared for marriage that she is shocked by 
it into driving her husband into the arms of another 
woman, and so fine witted that she is able to deal her 
jealous Hernani lover such strokes as, “I suppose, 
when I have answered all your questions —when I 
have proved to you that I am an honest woman, you 
will then demand that I shall cease to be one to prove 
that I love you ’? — this distinguished person becomes 
the merest cipher in “ The Squire of Dames.” Friu- 
lein Hackendorf survives very healthily in an American 


236 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


millionairess, played by Miss Fay Davis, who made an 
unmistakable hit in the part. The part of the lovesick 
schoolgirl Balbine, originally played by Chaumont, be- 
comes a mere piece of tomfoolery in English. Miss 
Beatrice Ferrars amuses herself with it laughably 
enough. Chantrin, the hero of the beard, is more 
fortunate. He has survived the Channel passage with- 
out alteration; so that the part is as dangerous in 
English as in French: that is, it remains the part of 
a bore who actually is a bore, and not an unconscious 
humorist. Mr. De Lange, however, averted the peril 
with great art and was very funny and very finished 
at the same time, a combination rather searce on our 
stage. Mr. Bernard Gould was in the same difficulty 
as Miss Moore: his part was not very intelligible, and 
led to nothing but a paltry piece of spite, unrelieved 
by the tragic pretension with which, in the original, it 
is contrasted, Ibsen fashion, by Dumas fils. Neverthe- 
less Mr. Gould, always persona grata, but hitherto 
one of the most experimental of amateurs, begins to 
show signs of serious formation as an artist with a 
definite style. As Sir Douglas Thorburn (Montégre) 
all he could do was to tow the wreck of his part into 
harbor without a catastrophe. Mr. Frank Fenton did 
precisely what was wanted as the husband. A man 
so abjectly in love with his wife is hardly a decent 
spectacle; but it is the actor’s business to supply 
sentiment when the drama demands it, and Mr. Fenton 
certainly rose to the occasion, under no easy condi- 
tions, with remarkable efficiency. Mr. Alfred Bishop 
and Miss Granville are also in the cast; but their parts 
have been adapted into unredeemed commonplace. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 237 


THE CASE FOR THE CRITIC- 
DRAMATIST 


16 November, 1895. 
A DISCUSSION has arisen recently as to whether 


a dramatic critic can also be a dramatic author 

without injury to his integrity and impartiality. 
The feebleness with which the point has been debated 
may be guessed from the fact that the favorite opinion 
seems to be that a critic is either an honest man or 
he is not. If honest, then dramatic authorship can 
make no difference to him. If not, he will be dishonest 
whether he writes plays or not. This childish evasion 
cannot, for the honor of the craft, be allowed to stand. 
If I wanted to ascertain the melting-point of a certain 
metal, and how far it would be altered by an alloy of 
some other metal, and an expert were to tell me that 
a metal is either fusible or it is not — that if not, no 
temperature will melt it; and if so, it will melt any- 
how —I am afraid I should ask that expert whether 
he was a fool himself or took me for one. Absolute 
honesty is as absurd an abstraction as absolute tem- 
perature or absclute value. A dramatic critic who 
would die rather than read an American pirated edition 
of a copyright English book might be considered an 
absolutely honest man for all practical purposes on 
that one particular subject —I say on that one, be- 
cause very few men have more than one point of honor; 
but as far as I am aware, no such dramatic critic 
exists. If he did, I should regard him as a highly 
dangerous monomaniac. That honesty varies inversely 
with temptation is proved by the fact that every addi- 


238 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


tional penny on the incometax yields a less return 
than the penny before it, showing that men state their 
incomes less honestly for the purposes of taxation at 
sevenpence in the pound than sixpence. The matter 
may be tested by a simple experiment. Go to one of 
the gentlemen whose theory is that a man is either 
honest or he is not, and obtain from him the loan of 
half-a-crown on some plausible pretext of a lost purse 
or some such peity emergency. He will not ask you 
for a written acknowledgment of the debt. Return 
next dav and ask for a loan of £500 without a promis- 
sory note, on the ground that vou are either honest or 
not honesi, and that a man who will pay back half-a- 
crown without compulsion will also pay back £500. 
You will find that the theory of absolute honesty will 
collapse at once. 

Are we then to believe that the critic-dramatist who 
stands to make anything from five hundred to ten thou- 
sand pounds by persuading a manager to produce his 
plays, will be prevented by his honesty from writing 
about that manager otherwise than he would if he had 
never written a play and were quite certain that he 
never should write one? I can only say that people who 
believe such a thing would believe anything. I am my- 
self a particularly flagrant example of the critic-dra- 
matist. It is not with me a mere case of an adaptation 
or two raked up against me as incidents in my past. 
I have written half-a-dozen “ origina] ” plays, four of 
which have never been performed; and I shall presently 
write half-a-dozen more. The production of one of 
them, even if it attained the merest success of esteem, 
would be more remunerative to me than a couple of years 
of criticisrn. Clearly, since I am no honester than other 
people, I should be the most corrupt flatterer in London 


— ae 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 239 
if there were nothing but honesty to restrain me. How 


is it, then, that the most severe criticisms of managers 
come from me and from my fellow critic-dramatisis, 
and that the most servile puffery comes from writers 
whose every sentence proves thet they have nothing 
to hope or iear from any manager? There are a good 
many answers to this question. one of the most obvious 
beimg that as the respect imspired by 2 good criticism 
ts permanent, whilst the irritation jé causes is tem- 
porary, and as, on the other hand. the pleasure given 
by a venal criticism is temporary, end the contempt 
it mspires permanent. no man resily secures his ad- 
vancement as a dramatist by making himself despised 
as accritic. The thing hes been tried extensively dur- 
mg the last twenty vears: end it hss failed. For ex- 
ample, the Iste Frank Marshell. es dramatist and an 
extravagantly enthusiastic edmirer of Sir Henry Irv- 
ing’s genius, followed a fashion which st one time made 
the Lyceum Thesire a sort of court formed by e retmue 
of literary gentlemen. I need not question either their 


+ 


= ° Y ° = 5 ° : ® 2% e “3 2 
sincerity or the superiority of Canute to their idolet 


for Canute mever produced their plars: “ Robert 

Emmett ™ and the rest of their mesterpieces remem 

umacted to this day. It may be ssid thst this brings 

us back to honesty as the best policy: but honesty 
e ee, e “ J * x qY 

has nothing to do with it: vlenty of the men who 

kmow that they can oe? along faster Oghtimg tan 
: ; ’ 1. 


e 2 : _ s* ..-5- -, 
crawling, ere no more homes? than the first Napoleon 
. . ”? =* wt ofl specs seniies s Tv ther 
was. No virtue. least of all coursge. implies any otner 


= = ? = . _ = s PSS 
virtue. The cardina!l cuarantee for a cmiie’s mtegrity 
n Mf e 3 See Pe 
js simoly the force of the critical instinct miselt. To 
os s 
e s,8 e s » ii aes oe 
try to prevent me from criticimmg by pomting oui i 
*. > ine 


sete mm 


« all me e Be 
oa = - + ’ es é va) 
me the superior pecuniary advantages of pulimg is 25¢e 


= 2. — = os sad =~ ~~. >. -” = ; F 
trying to keep a voung Irving trem gomg_ on ihe stage 


240 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


by pointing out the superior pecuniary advantages of 
stockbroking. If my own father were an actor-man- 
ager, and his life depended on his getting favorable 
notices of his performance, I should orphan myself 
without an instant’s hesitation if he acted badly. I 
am by no means the willing victim of this instinct. I 
am keenly susceptible to contrary influences — to flat- 
tery, which I swallow greedily if the quality is suffi- 
ciently good; to the need of money, to private friend- 
ship or even acquaintanceship, to the pleasure of giving 
pleasure and the pain of giving pain, to consideration 
for people’s circumstances and prospects, to personal 
likes and dislikes, to sentimentality, pity, chivalry, pug- 
nacity and mischief, laziness and cowardice, and a dozen 
other human conditions which make the critic vulner- 
able; but the critical instinct gets the better of them 
all. I spare no effort to mitigate its inhumanity, try- 
ing to detect and strike out of my articles anything 
that would give pain without doing any good. ‘Those 
who think the things I say severe, or even malicious, 
should just see the things I do not say. I do my best 
to be partial, to hit out at remediable abuses rather 
than at accidental shortcomings, and at strong and re- 
sponsible people rather than weak and helpless ones. 
And yet all my efforts do not alter the result very much. 
So stubborn is the critic within me, that with every 
disposition to be as good-natured and as popular an 
authority as the worst enemy of art could desire, I 
am to all intents and purposes incorruptible. And that 
is how the dramatist-critic, if only he is critic enough, 
“slates ? the actor-manager in defiance of the interest 
he has in conciliating him. He cannot help himself, 
any more than the ancient mariner could help telling 
his story. And the actor-manager can no more help 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 241 


listening than the wedding guest could. In short, the 
better formula would have been, that a man is either a 
critic or not a critic; that to the extent to which he is 
one he will criticize the managers in spite of heaven or 
earth; and that to the extent to which he is not, he 
will flatter them anyhow, to save himself trouble. 

The advantage of having a play criticized by a critic 
who is also a playwright is as obvious as the advan- 
tage of having a ship criticized by a critic who is also 
a master shipwright. Pray observe that I do not speak 
of the criticism of dramas and ships by dramatists and 
shipwrights who are not also critics; for that would be 
no more convincing than the criticism of acting by 
actors. Dramatic authorship no more constitutes a 
man a critic than actorship constitutes him a dramatic 
author; but a dramatic critic learns as much from 
having been a dramatic author as Shakespeare or Mr. 
Pinero from having been actors. The average London 
critic, for want of practical experience, has no real con- 
fidence in himself: he is always searching for an imagi- 
nary “right”? opinion, with which he never dares to 
identify his own. Consequently every public man finds 
that as far as the press is concerned his career divides 
itself into two parts: the first, during which the critics 
are afraid to praise him; and the second, during which 
they are afraid to do anything else. In the first, the 
critic is uncomfortably trying to find faults enough to 
make out a case for his timid coldness: in the second, 
he is eagerly picking out excellences to justify his 
eulogies. And of course he blunders equally in both 
phases. The faults he finds are either inessential or are 
positive reforms, or he blames the wrong people for 
them: the triumphs of acting which he announces are 
stage tricks that any old hand could play. In criticiz- 


242 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ing actresses he is an open and shameless voluptuary. 
If a woman is pretty, well dressed, and self-satisfied 
enough to be at her ease on the stage, he is delighted; 
and if she is a walking monument of handsome incom- 
petence, so much the better, as your voluptuary rarely 
likes a woman to be cleverer than himself, or to force 
him to feel deeply and think energetically when he only 
wants to wallow in her good looks. Confront him with 
an actress who will not condescend to attack him on 
this side — who takes her work with thorough serious- 
ness and self-respect — and his resentment, his humilia- 
tion, his sense of being snubbed, break out ludicrously 
in his writing, even when he dare not write otherwise 
than favorably. A great deal of this nonsense would 
be taken out of him if he could only write a play and 
have it produced. No dramatist begins by writing 
plays merely as excuses for the exhibition of pretty 
women on the stage. He comes to that ultimately per- 
haps; but at first he does his best to create real char- 
acters and make them pass through three acts of real 
experiences. Being a critic who has done this face to 
face with the practical question of selecting an actress 
for his heroine, and he suddenly realizes for the first 
time that there is not such a galaxy of talent on the 
London stage as he thought, and that the handsome 
walking ladies whom he always thought good enough 
for other people’s plays are not good enough for his 
own. That is already an immense step in his education. 
There are other steps, too, which he will have taken 
before the curtain falls on the first public representa- 
tion of his play; but they may be summed up in the 
fact that the author of a play is the only person who 
really wants to have it well done in every respect, and 
who therefore has every drawback brought fully home 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 243 


to him. The man who has had that awakening about 
one play will thenceforth have his eyes open at all other 
plays; and there you have at once the first moral with 
the first technical qualification of the critic — the de- 
termination to have every play as well done as possible, 
and the knowledge of what is standing in the way of 
that consummation. ‘Those of our critics who, either 
as original dramatists or adapters and translators, 
have superintended the production of plays with pater- 
nal anxiety, are never guilty of the wittily disguised 
indifference of clever critics who have never seen a 
drama through from its first beginnings behind the 
scenes. Compare the genuine excitement of Mr. 
Clement Scott, or the almost Calvinistic seriousness 
of Mr. William Archer, with the gaily easy what-does- 
it-matterness of Mr. Walkley, and you see at once how 
the two critic-dramatists influence the drama, whilst 
the critic-playgoer only makes it a pretext for enter- 
taining his readers. On the whole there is only as much 
validity in the theory that a critic should not be a 
dramatist, as in the theory that a judge should not 
be a lawyer nor a general a soldier. You cannot have 
qualifications without experience; and you cannot have 
experience without personal interest and bias. That 
may not be an ideal arrangement; but it is the way 
the world is built; and we must make the best of it. 


244 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


MANXSOME AND TRADITIONAL 


The Manzxman: in four acts. Adapted from Hall 
Caine’s celebrated novel. Shaftesbury Theatre, 18 
November, 1895. 

The Rivals: a revival of Sheridan’s comedy. Court 
Theatre, 11 November, 1895. 


from HALL CAINE’S celebrated novel.” Who is 
Hall Caine? How did he become celebrated? At 
what period did he flourish? Are there any other Manx 
authors of his calibre? If there are, the matter will 
soon become serious; for if that gift of intolerably 
copious and intolerably common imagination is a na- 
tional characteristic in the Isle of Man, it will swamp 
the stage with Manx melodramas the moment the 
islanders pick up the trick of writing for the stage. 
Whether the speeches in “ The Manxman ” are inter- 
polated Wilson Barrett or aboriginal Hall Caine I can- 
not say, as I have not read the celebrated novel, and 
am prepared to go to the stake rather than face the 
least chapter of it. But if they correctly represent the 
colloquial habits of the island, the Manx race are with- 
out a vernacular, and only communicate with one an- 
other by extracts from Cassell’s National Library, the 
Chandos Classics, and the like. In the Isle of Man 
you do not use the word “always”: you say ‘*‘ Come 
weal come woe, come life come death.” The most useful 
phrases for the tourist are “‘ Dust and ashes, dust and 
ashes,” “ Dead sea fruit,” “The lone watches of the 
night,” “ What a hell is conscience!” “ The storm 
clouds are descending and the tempest is at hand,” and 


T° the bill “ The Manxman ” is described as “ adapted 








DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 245 


soon. The Manx do not speak of a little baby, but of 
a baby “ fresh from God.” Their philosophy is that 
“love is best — is everything — 1s the cream of life — 
better than worldly success’; and they conceive wo- 
man —or, as they probably call her, “the fair sex” 
—as a creature “ giving herself body and soul, and 
never thinking what she gets by it. That’s the glory 
of Woman!” And the Manxwoman rather deserves 
this. Her idea of pleasantry is to sit on a plank over 
a stream dangling her legs; to call her young swain’s 
attention to her reflection in the water; and then, lest 
he should miss the coquetry of the exhibition, to cut off 
the reflected view of her knees by wrapping her skirt 
round her ankles in a paroxysm of affected bashfulness. 
And when she sprains her ankle, and the gentleman ten- 
ders some surgical aid, she requests him to turn his 
head the other way. In short, the keynote of your 
perfect Manxman is tawdry vulgarity aping the heroic, 
the hearty, the primevally passionate, and sometimes, 
though here the show of vigor in the affectation tumbles 
into lame ineptitude, the gallant and humorous. 

Even when I put my personal distaste for “ The 
Manxman” as far as possible on one side, I cannot 
persuade myself that it is likely to live very long, 
although no device is spared to move the audience, from 
a cascade of real water to a poor little baby, which 1s 
exploited as shamelessly as if it had been let out on 
hire to an organ-grinder or a beggar. Thirty years 
hence, no doubt, we shall have some newly risen star 
telling the interviewers of a first appearance as the 
baby in “ The Manxman ”; but that interesting possi- 
bility cannot reconcile me to the meanness of such ways 
of fishing for sympathy. In the great “ Doll’s House ” 
itself, where children are introduced with so serious a 


246 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


purpose that no one can have any sense of their being 
unworthily used, I always feel that I should prefer 
the baby to be an amateur. At the Shaftesbury melo- 
drama, where there was no serious purpose, but only 
an ostentatious cradling and cuddling and dandling 
and. bless-its-little-hearting in order to work up the 
greatest possible quantity of sentiment on the cheapest 
possible terms, I felt thoroughly ashamed of the busi- 
ness. What with the real water, the infant, and the 
well-worn incident of the fond and simple-hearted hus- 
band returning home to find his wife gone, the drama 
passes the time tolerably up to the end of the second 
act. The rest of it is as null and dull as the most 
cautious manager could desire. The third act is noth- 
ing but a “ front scene ” bulked out to fill up the even- 
ing; and the fourth act, with its offensively noisy 
street music, does not produce a moment’s illusion. The 
play, originally designed for an actor-manager who 
played Quilliam, has evidently been a good deal botched 
in altering it to fit another actor-manager who plays 
Christian; but it never can have been a good play, be- 
cause it is not really a drama at all, but an active 
narrative. Any competent playwright could make the 
third act effectively dramatic if only he were released 
from all obligation to consult “ the celebrated novel.” 
As it is, it is a chapter in a story, not an act in a 
drama. 

As to the acting, most of the sixteen parts are so 
indefinite in spite of their portentous names — Black 
Tom, Ross Christian, Jemmy y Lord, and so on — 
that there is nothing to act in them. Mr. Cockburn 
is just the man for Pete Quilliam, a rather fortunate 
circumstance for him, as there is little art and no hus- 
bandry in his acting, though his natural equipment 1s 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 247 


first-rate of its kind. Miss Kate Phillips, with much 
greater skill, divided the honors with him. There were 
no other personal successes. Mr. Fernandez, in one of 
those characters which the celebrated Hall Caine ap- 
parently copies very vilely from Sir Walter Scott, 
mouthed texts of Scripture in a manner which ex- 
posed him to the most serious risk of being described 
as “a sound actor.” Professional methods were also 
illustrated by Mr. Hamilton Knight as the Manxsome 
governor. He, having to leave the stage with the inno- 
cent words, “‘ Come and see us as soon as you can,” 
showed us how the experienced hand can manufacture 
an effective exit. He went to the door with the words 
** Come and see us as soon.”” Then he nerved himself; 
opened the door; turned dauntlessly; and with raised 
voice and sparkling eyes hurled the significant words 
“as you can” in the teeth of the gallery. Naturally 
we were all struck with admiration, because it was just 
the thing that none of us would have thought of or 
known how to do. 

Mr. Lewis Waller managed to get a moment of real 
acting into the end of the first act, and then relapsed 
into nonsensical solemnity for the rest of the evening. 
I do not know what he was thinking of; but it can 
hardly have been of the play. He delivered his lines 
with the automatic gravity of a Brompton Cemetery 
clergyman repeating the burial service for the thou- 
sandth time. He uttered endless strings of syllables; 
but he did not divide them into words, much Jess 
phrases. ‘ IcannotIwillnotlistentothisIwonthearofit,”’ 
was the sort of thing he inflicted on us for three mortal 
acts. As to Miss Florence West, if she persists in 
using her privilege as the manager’s wife to play melo- 
dramatic heroines, she will ruin the enterprise. Some 


248 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


years’ hard and continuous work might make her an 
accomplished performer in artificial comedy or in the 
Sardou-Bernhardt line of sensational drama. At pres- 
ent she is obviously a highly civilized modern London 
lady, whose natural attitude towards melodramatic 
sentiment is one of supercilious incredulity. There is 
about as much sense in casting her for Kate Cregeen 
as there would be in casting Mr. Waller himself for 
Tony Lumpkin. 

Of “ The Rivals ” at the Court Theatre, I can only 
say that Mrs. John Wood’s Mrs. Malaprop is so good 
that it almost atones for the atrocity of the rest of 
the performance. I am sorry to say that the short- 
comings are not all due to “ the traditions,” insuffer- 
able as they are. In more than one instance, a leading 
part has been deliberately given to a mere pupil, 
coached up to the requisite business gesture by gesture 
and phrase by phrase. Most of the rest of the acting 
is forced, noisy, and tiresome beyond description. The 
cackling, boisterous, mirthless laughter; the racketing 
and swaggering; the ostentatious consciousness of 
Sheridan’s reputation; the tomfoolish stage business, 
which might have been invented by Pierce Egan, and 
would not now be tolerated in a modern play at any 
leading theatre: all this wearies me, disgusts me, Jars 
on me unbearably. I will do Mr. Sidney Brough the 
justice to admit that he tries to dehumanize himself, in 
the manner unhappily expected of him, without being 
offensive, and succeeds as far as that is possible; and 
that Mr. Brandon Thomas plays Sir Lucius agreeably 
and even with dignity, mainly by not doing what is 
expected of him. But the others fall an unresisting 
prey to the traditions, which, as far as the stage busi- 
ness is concerned, are simply the coarse methods and 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 249 


Mohawk manners of Sheridan’s day thrust on to our 
stage. Mr. Farren, as Sir Anthony Absolute, is one 
of the worst offenders. He does not succeed in making 
the part live for a moment. Mr. Farren can play Sir 
Peter Teazle adequately, because any polished elderly 
actor of comedy has only to repeat Sheridan’s lines 
intelligently to be Sir Peter. But Sir Anthony, a well- 
marked choleric character type, demands a genuine feat 
of impersonation; and this Mr. Farren does not give 
us. Of course, he is applauded in the part — I am con- 
vinced that if he had substituted the lines and costume 
of the ghost in “ Hamlet” for Sir Anthony’s, every- 
body would have gone into the customary raptures 
sooner than venture to use their own judgment when 
Mr. Farren and Sheridan were in question — but to me 
there was no Sir Anthony there, nothing but an obso- 
lete formula for old comedy worked out with plenty of 
technical address, but without verisimilitude or rele- 
vance to the peculiar temperament indicated in the 
play. Mrs. John Wood’s sincerity, and the genuine 
comic effect it produced, ought to have convinced the 
rest that her policy of never laughing at hersclf, or 
at Sheridan, or to persuade the audience that old 
comedy is immensely funny, was the right policy; but 
the lesson was quite lost on them. 

The band played a maddening string of old English 
airs all the evening. If Mr. Edward Jones will cut 
them all out except his variation on “ The Banks of 
Allan Water,” which is effective and ingenious, all 
musicians will be grateful to him. Old English airs 
are ali very well; but a couple of hundred of them 
on end is more than any reasonable person can be 
expected to endure at one sitting. 


250 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


THE DIVIDED WAY 


The Divided Way: an original play in three acts. By 
H. V. Esmond. The Misogynist: an original one-act 
play. By G. W. Godfrey. St. James’s Theatre, 23 
November, 1895. 


last a charming play,” I was able to exclaim 

at the St. James’s, last Saturday, after weeks 
of splenetic denunciation of the theatre and everything 
connected with it. ‘‘ The Divided Way ” is a roman- 
tically tragic love drama, written with a delicate fresh- 
ness of feeling, and here and there a pardonable and 
even pleasant touch of exaggeration and indiscretion, 
which gives the work an air of boyish genius and sur- 
rounds it with an atmosphere of hope. ‘That the 
author, Mr. Esmond, is youthful in appearance, we all 
know. Whether he is a young man really, I have no 
idea. I have known men just like Mr. Esmond, and 
treated them as children of genius — Chattertons, m 
fact — for fifteen years, during which period their ap- 
pearance has not altered in the least, only to be finally 
invited by them to celebrate the tenth birthday of their 
second eldest grandchild. Consequently until I see Mr. 
Esmond’s certificate of birth, I shall suspend my judg- 
ment as to whether his years are those of Cayley 
Drummle or Little Billee. Fortunately age is not a 
matter of years only, but of evolution. A man of 
forty-eight is younger in body than a dog of twelve; 
and in the same way one man at sixty is sometimes 
younger in mind than another at twenty: at all events 


cs A T last a noble deed,” says Hedda Gabler. ‘* At 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 251 


it is certain that any one who chooses his friends from 
among the brightest spirits of his time will soon become 
familiar with fathers who are younger than their sons 
and mothers who are younger than their daughters. 
Therefore when I say that Mr. Esmond’s charm is a 
youthful one, I imply neither patronage nor disparage- 
ment: I am perfectly prepared to learn that he is old 
enough to be my father, and to venerate him in private 
life whilst envying him in his public aspect. 

I call * The Divided Way ” tragically romantic be- 
cause it ends with death, in unquestioning obedience to 
the law of the realm of romance, that love is strong as 
death and jealousy cruel as the grave. In real life 
this law does not hold. As I have already had to 
point out in criticizing romantic dramas, love can be 
more easily baffled and jealousy more safely braved than 
any of the other passions, in spite of the fact that both 
social discipline and criminal law are sentimentally re- 
laxed to an alarming degree in favor of people who act 
on the romantic theory, even to the extent of com- 
mitting murder. In Mr. Esmond’s play a young lady 
falls in love with a young gentleman named Gaunt 
Humeden, who goes to Africa and gets killed. There- 
upon the lady, acting on the celebrated view of the 
Grand Duchess of Gerolstein, that if you cannot have 
the man you love you must love the man you have, 
marries Jack, brother to the deceased. This is no 
sooner settled than the deceased comes back from 
Africa to contradict the news of his death, and settles 
down at Humeden Grange with the rest of the family. 
He allows the old flirtation to pass as a joke; and so 
does the lady, each believing that the other no longer 
cares. Enter to them one day Jay Grist, not, as one 
would expect, an unscrupulous American financier, but 


252 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


an African traveller. To the lady he reveals the fact 
that Gaunt, whilst dying in the African desert, raved 
continually of her: to Gaunt, who explains that the 
lady no longer cares for him, and that he is pretending 
not to care for her, he puts the question, “ How do you 
know that she is not pretending also?” ‘Then all the 
fat is in the fire. The lady takes a practical view of 
the case, the gentleman an idealistic one. She says, 
“I agreed to spend my life with Jack under the 1m- 
pression that you were not available. Now that it 
appears you are available, I propose to spend my life 
with you. If I stay with Jack I shall make him miser- 
able, make you miserable, and be miserable myself. 
Clearly it is better economy to make Jack miserable 
and make you and myself happy.’ Gaunt is too con- 
ventionable to be able to explain to her that this 1s 
the logic of romance, not of life, and that a broken 
heart is a much more healthy complaint than she 
imagines. He threatens to run away to the East again. 
She trumps that card by threatening to follow him. 
He then says, “ Very good: I shall poison myself; and 
you can follow me there if you like.” ‘This is the logic 
of romance with a vengeance. Wanquished, she declines 
the ordeal; and it is agreed that he is to return to 
the East and that she is not to follow him, but to go 
home like a good wife. At this point Jack comes in; 
and for some reason which escaped me at the per- 
formance, and which I confess I can trace neither in 
the logic of romance nor life, is informed of the whole 
situation. The lady, seeing that this makes the future, 
romantically speaking, impossible for her, suddenly 
drinks the poison and ends the play. The moral, ap- 
parently, is that which the French assassin offered on 
the scaffold as the lesson of his experience: “ Never 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 253 


confess.” But of course the ending, being a romantic 
ending, exists for its own sake, and not as a peg to 
hang a moral on. 

Like all romantic plays which create a strong illu- 
sion, this one irresistibly raises the question how its 
final situation would do for the starting-point of a 
realistic play. All Ibsen’s later plays, from “ Pillars 
of Society” to “ Little Eyolf,” are continuations of 
this kmd, a fact which wrought so powerfully with Mr. 
Austin Friars that he actually wrote and put on the 
stage the drama which lies implicit in the exposition of 
‘* Rosmersholm,” perhaps the most singular dramatic 
exploit of modern times, and one which, whether it was 
intended merely to teach Ibsen the right place to begin, 
or, as I believe, out of a perfectly genuine impulse to 
put the pathos of the story of Mrs. Rosmer on the stage 
without the merciless philosophy of Ibsen behind it, had 
its value as an object lesson. It seems to me that if 
Mr. Esmond would reverse the procedure of Mr. Austin 
Friars, and, having already brought Gaunt Humeden 
to life after killing him, were to brmg Mrs. Gaunt to 
life also, we should have a remarkably interesting 
realistic play on top of the romantic one. Any one 
who has attentively watched the world for some years 
past must by this time be aware that conventional solu- 
tions of such situations are growing extremely dan- 
gerous and unstable in practice, and that unconven- 
tional ones are growing more practicable than they 
used to be. What exceptional people do in one genera- 
tion average people are generally found doing in the 
next. About twenty-six years ago a somewhat similar 
dilemma to that in Mr. Esmond’s play arose between 
three persons no less famous than Wagner, Hans von 
Bulow, and Liszt’s daughter, Cosima von Bulow. 


254 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Madame von Bulow preferred to spend her life with 
Wagner, just as Mrs. Humeden in the play preferred 
to spend her life with Gaunt. ‘The change was effected 
with the happiest results: at least I am not aware that 
anybody was a penny the worse — certainly not Ma- 
dame Wagner, who holds her court at Bayreuth with 
a dignity which many actual princesses might, and 
probably do, envy. Far be it from me to suggest 
anarchical violations of our marriage laws rather than 
an orderly agitation for constitutional reform of them 
in harmony with the higher morality of our own times; 
but I do venture to remark that people who decline 
to carry obedience to that law too far are at least 
as interesting dramatically as people who forge and 
murder, and that the notion that the consequences of 
such disobedience, when carried out in good faith by 
respectable people (George Eliot, for example) are 
necessarily so awful that suicide 1s the more reason- 
able alternative, is a piece of nonsense that might as 
well be dropped on the stage. No human institution 
could stand the strain of the monstrous assumptions on 
which our existing marriage laws proceed if we were 
really sincere about them; and though there is much to 
be said for our English method of maintaining social 
order by collectively maintaining the sacredness of our 
moral ideas whilst we individually mitigate their se- 
verity by evasion, collusion, and never seeing anything 
until our attention is compelled by legal proceedings, 
yet the abuse of this system of toleration by people 
whose conduct we are not prepared to excuse, but who 
cannot very well be exposed if the excusable people are 
to be spared, is landing us in looser views than we ever 
bargained for. Already we have an aimlessly rebellious 
crusade against marriage altogether, and a curious 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 255 


habit of circumspection on the part of the experienced 
man of the world, who, when newly introduced to an 
English household, picks his way very cautiously until 
he has ascertained whether the husband and wife really 
would be husband and wife in France or Germany or 
South Dakota, and, if his conclusion is unfavorable, 
which friend of the family is Mr. Gaunt Humeden, so 
to speak. Not that the domestic situations which are 
not white are all necessarily jet black or even disagree- 
ably gray; but the fact that under the English law 
a mistake in marriage cannot be effectively remedied 
except by the disgrace of either party — that is to say, 
cannot be remedied at all by decent people, divorce 
being thus a boon reserved to reward the dissolute — 
is continually producing a supply of cases not at all 
dissimilar to that which is the subject of Mr. Esmond’s 
play. Most of them are settled, not by suicide, nor by 
flights into Egypt, but by the parties drifting along, 
nobody doing anything wrong, and nobody doing any- 
thing right, all seeing enough of one another to make 
them contented faute de mieux, whilst maintaining their 
honor intact. Whether this customary and convenable 
solution is really better — say in its effect on the chil- 
dren who grow up observing it— than the violent 
method of open scandal and collusory divorce, involving 
the public announcement of cruelties and adulteries 
which have never been committed, is an open question, 
not admitting of a general answer. Obviously, the ideal 
husband and wife who give all their affection to one 
another, and maintain a state of cold indifference to 
every one else, would be executed without benefit of 
clergy as a couple of heartless monopolists; for the 
idealist may be safely challenged to produce a single 
instance of a thoroughly happy marriage in which the 


256 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


affection which makes the marriage happy does not 
extend to a wide cirele of friends. Just as good mothers 
and. fathers love all lovable children, so good wives and 
husbands love all lovable husbands and wives. People 
with this gift of heart are not prevented from marrying 
by Don Juan’s difficulty: they can be faithful to one 
without being unfaithful to all the rest. Unfortu- 
nately, they are no more common than the domestic 
terrors who are utterly incapable of living with any- 
body on tolerable terms. Family life may mean any- 
thing between these two extremes, from that of the 
southern countries where the guide-book warns the Eng- 
lish tourist that if he asks a man after his wife’s health 
he will probably be challenged to fight a duel, or that 
of the English stage, where the same evil construction 
is maintained on the same pretence of jealousy of pri- 
vate morality and the honor of womanhood, to the most 
cultivated sections of English and American society, 
where people think of our existing marriage law much 
as Matthew Arnold thought about Tennyson, and un- 
fortunately keep their opinion to themselves with equal 
* sood taste.” The practical result is, superhuman 
pretension, extravagant hypocrisy, tolerance of every 
sort of misconduct provided it is clandestine, and, of 
course, a conspiracy of silence. On the whole I think 
Mr. Esmond might do worse than treat his theme over 
again, this time as a realist instead of a romanticist. 
Even in the romantic version it strikes one as odd 
that it does not occur to the husband that if there is 
to be any poison taken, he is the man to take it. It 
seems to me that the natural attitude for a husband 
whose wife prefers another man is a purely apologetic 
one; though I observe that on the stage he seems to 
take it for granted that he is an injured person as well 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 257 


as an unfortunate one. No doubt my moral sense has 
not been properly trained on such points; so possibly 
I shall alter my opinion when I get married, though I 
confess I regard that as an additional reason for not 
getting married. Howbeit, taking the play, as it is, I 
find it continuously engaging and pleasant, showing us 
a humane and villainless society in which naturally 
sympathetic intercourse replaces the ostentatiously 
motived communications and revelations of the ordinary 
play (as if people never told their sorrows to one an- 
other spontaneously), and with parts in it that the 
actors can really feel and study. Muss Millard as Lois 
is not the somewhat romantic figure, passionate and 
tragic, that Mr. Esmond conceived: she has made 
Lois a real woman, more fascinating and interesting 
than any man-made woman could possibly be. Her 
serious, thoughtful charm, so beautifuliy sober and 
dignified, has at last found a part in which it is not 
disastrously wasted. The moment she enters it is evi- 
dent that she has created Lois, who lives all through 
the play, silent or speaking, and makes it her own story. 
One or two of Mr. Esmond’s more strained passages — 
notably the “ Ring out the old, ring in the new,” busi- 
ness at the end of the second act — were out of the 
character as she created it; but that was so much the 
worse for the passages. None of the others achieved 
anything like the same success, though Mr. Vernon 
would perhaps have got upon the same artistic level 
if his part had given him the chance. He played 
admirably as far as his opportunity went. For the 
rest, Mr. Alexander gave us a finished impersonation 
of Mr. George Alexander; Mr. Aynesworth was as 
popular as ever as Mr. Allan Aynesworth; and Mr. 
Waring played Mr. Herbert Waring to perfection. 


258 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Mr. Vincent disguised himself to some extent as an 
Irish doctor, educated at Rugby, where he had acquired 
an accent something between that of a Ringsend coal- 
heaver and a Sligo drover, as an Irish gentleman 
naturally would at an English public school. The 
play is handsomely staged; and though two unfortu- 
nate gentlemen in the gallery rent the air with com- 
fortless lamentations at being defrauded of a happy 
ending, the rest of the house was enthusiastic in its 
appreciation. 

“The Misogynist,” by Mr. G. W. Godfrey, precedes 
“The Divided Way.” It is an elaborately serious 
background for a joke about a duke and a music-hall 
singer, which was so amazingly unexpected that it 
swept the house away. I grieve to say that Mr. 
Alexander, fired by the vogue of the Hero of Waterloo, 
dodders through the piece as an old man, croaking 
and piping and exhibiting his tongue so as to produce 
an effect of having false teeth. The sole merit of the 
performance is that it deceives nobody. Mr. Alexander, 
fortunately for himself and us, does not -clong to the 
race u. ~. .liweeds, who, born decrepit, in play old 
men at nineteen. However, we owe N\ Alexander 
much; and if it pleases him once in a ___ y to pamt 
his face and talk like that under the im, ession that 
he is giving a lifelike illustration of one of the Seven 
Ages, he can depend on us all to keep our counte- 
nances and praise him to the skies. Miss Ellice Jeffries, 
as Kitty Denison, played with a very marked increase 
of sincerity and artistic courage. If she maintains that 
rate of improvement her position will finally justify 
Mr. Pinero’s choice of her for a leading part in “ Mrs. 


Ebbsmith.” 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 259 


TOLD YOU SO 


7 December, 1895. 


Mrs. Ponderbury’s Past: a farcical comedy in three 
acts, adapted by F. C. Burnand from Madame Mon- 
godin. By Ernest Blum and Raoul Toche. 

A Dangerous Ruffian: a comedy in one act. By W. D. 
Howells. Avenue Theatre. 


N truly magnanimous soul ever indulges in the 


mean triumph of “I told you so.” Exhibitions 

of magnanimity, however, are not the business 
of a critic any more than of a general in the field: for 
both alike the pursuit is as important as the victory, 
though it may be a barbarous, murderous, demoralizing 
cavalry business of cutting down helpless fugitives. It 
was Lessing, the most eminent of dramatic critics (so 
I am told by persons who have read him), who was 
reproached by Heine for not only cutting off his 
victims’ heads but holding them up afterwards to show 
that there were no brains in them. The critical pro- 
fession, in fact, is cruel in its nature, and demands for 
its efficient discharge an inhuman person like myself. 
Therefore nobody need be surprised if I raise an ex- 
ultant and derisive laugh at the clouds of defeat, dis- 
appointment, failure, perhaps ruin, which overhang the 
theatre at present. Where is your Manxman now, with 
his hired baby and his real water? Has the desperate 
expedient of fitting “‘ Her Advocate ” with a new act 
and a new hero saved it from destruction? What of 
the adipose humors of “ Poor Mr. Potton ”? — do its 


260 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


authors still believe that the cheaper the article the 
wider the consumption; or are they mourning with Mr. 
Jerome K. Jerome and Mr. Willard over the ingratitude 
of an imaginary public of idiots to whose level they 
have condescended in vain? I am not, I hope, an ex- 
acting critic: I have been reproached from my own 
side for approving of ‘‘ Miss Brown ” and disapproving 
of “Mrs. Ebbsmith”; and although I should have 
advised, and been right in advising Mr. Lewis Waller 
to produce Ibsen’s hitherto unacted and impossible 
“Emperor or Galilean” rather than “The Manx- 
man,” since it would have secured him at least a fort- 
night’s business, not to mention a lifetime of artistic 
credit, yet something as enjoyable as ‘* The Passport ” 
or “ The Prude’s Progress ” would have quite satisfied 
me. I graciously tolerated these plays; and they 
flourished: I frowned on the others; and they withered 
from the stage. In this I acted as most sages do, 
making an easy guess at what was going to happen, 
and taking care to prophesy it. “ Dick Hallward,” 
“ Her Advocate,” and “ The Manxman ” were nothing 
but lame attempts to compete with the conventicle by 
exploiting the rooted love of the public for moralizing 
and homiletics. Nobody, I hope, will at this time of 
day raise a senseless braying against preaching in the 
theatre. The work of insisting that the church is the 
house of God and the theatre the house of Satan may 
be left to those poor North Sea islanders who have been 
brought up to believe that it is wrong to enter a 
playhouse. The theatre is really the week-day church; 
and a good play is essentially identical with a church 
service as a combination of artistic ritual, profession 
of faith, and sermon. Wherever the theatre is alive, 
there the church is alive also: Italy, with its huge, 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 261 


magnificent, empty churches, and slovenly, isincere 
services, has also its huge, magnificent, empty theatres, 
with slovenly, insincere plays. The countries which 
we call Scandinavian (to the exasperation of all true 
Norwegians, somehow) produce saints and preachers, 
dramatists and actors, who influence all Europe. The 
fundamental unity of Church and Theatre — a neces- 
sary corollary of the orthodox doctrine of omni- 
presence — is actually celebrated on the stage in such 
dramas as “ Brand,” and in the “ Parsifal ” perform- 
ance at Bayreuth, which is nothing less than the Com- 
munion presented in theatrical instead of ecclesiastical 
form. Indeed, the matter comes out in a simpler way. 
Some time ago I had occasion to deliver a public ad- 
dress on the Problems of Poverty in Bristol. Follow- 
ing the custom of those who understand such problems, 
I put up at the most expensive hotel in the town, where 
I arrived the night before that appointed for my own 
performance. After dinner I went into the hall of the 
hotel to study the theatrical announcements exhibited 
for the convenience of playgoing visitors. There, 
among bills of pantomimes and melodramas, I found, 
in carved wooden frames of “ ecclesiastical ” gothic de- 
sign, and with capital letters suggestive of the ten 
commandments, the announcements of the churches, 
with the hours of service, and details of the musical 
arrangements, as to which “special attention’ was 
guaranteed. Leaving all theological and sectarian con- 
siderations out of account, I have no doubt whatever 
that the Bristol churchgoer has a better time of it, in 
point of comfort, decency, cheapness, music, interest, 
edification, rest and recreation than the Bristol play- 
goer. I sometimes believe that our playgoers in London 
are simply stupid people who have not found out those 


262 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


great “draws,” the services in St. Paul’s and West- 
minster Abbey. Certainly, when I recall some of the 
evening services I have attended in cathedrals, and 
compare them with the dull drudgery of sitting out 
the Manxman, even in a complimentary stall (what 
must it be in the shilling gallery?) I begin to under- 
stand why it is that only the weaklings, the sentimen- 
talists, the unbusinesslike people go to the theatre, 
whilst the solid, acquisitive, industrious, safely selfish 
Englishman who will have the best value for his money, 
sticks to the church. 

In the face of these facts it cannot be pretended 
that either our late experiments in melodrama or any 
other enterprises of the kind in England have ever 
failed through preaching and sermonizing. The British 
public likes a sermon, and resents an exhibition of 
human nature. If you bring on the stage the English- 
man who lives in a single-room tenement, as many 
Englishmen do, and who beats his wife, as all English- 
men do under such circumstances except when their 
wives beat them, you will be denounced as the author 
of a “problem play.” If you substitute an actor- 
preacher who declares that “the man who would lift 
his hand to a woman save in the way of kindness,” etc., 
it will be admitted on all hands that your feelings do 
your credit. Your popular Adelphi actor may lack 
every qualification save one — pious unction. And his 
most popular act is contrite confession, just as the 
most popular ‘‘ evangelist ”’ is the converted collicr or 
prizefighter, who can delight his hearers with the 
atrocities he committed before his second birth, whilst 
sanctifying the wicked story with penitent tears and 
sighs of gratitude for his redemption. I have followed 
the revivalist preacher through many an incarnation; 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 263 


and now he cannot elude my recognition by merely 
taking refuge in a theatre. In vain does he mount 
the stage in a barrister’s wig and gown and call his 
familiar emotional display acting. I am not to be 
deceived: in his struggles with his mock passion for 
the leading lady I recognize the old wrestle with the 
devil: in his muddy joy and relief at having won a 
verdict of acquittal for her I detect the rapture of the 
sinner saved. I see him at a glance in Dick Hallward, 
in Pete Quilliam, in Governor Christian. Mr. Cart- 
wright, well schooled at the Adelphi, has his trick to 
the life; Mr. Willard spoils him by trying to act; 
Mr. Lewis Waller utterly destroys him by treating him 
in the High Church manner; but, spoiled or unspoiled, 
there he 1s, all over the stage; and there, too, in the 
auditorium, is the hysterical groan and sniff which 
passes with simple souls as evidence of grace abound- 
ing. Why, then, has he been so unsuccessful of late? 
The answer is easy: he has failed to carry conviction. 
The congregation has said to itself, “‘ This is not Spur- 
geon, it is Stiggins; and his lying lips are an abomina- 
tion. The whole thing is put on to make money out 
of us. Does he take us for fools, with his babies and 
cradles, his policemen and criminal trials, his bottles 
of poison and slow music? ” That attitude is fatal. 
Any gospel or anti-gospel will succeed as long as the 
author and the audience are making for the same end, 
whether by affirmation and praise, or by satire and 
negation. But when an author is openly insulting his 
patrons in the gallery by flattering their conscious 
hypocrisy, and complimenting them on what he con- 
ceives to be their weaknesses and superstitions, and 
what they themselves equally conceive to be their weak- 
nesses and superstitions, he is predestined to damna- 


264 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


tion. To be publicly and obviously played down to 
is more than human nature can bear. 

‘The New Boy ” and “ The Strange Adventures of 
Miss Brown,” on the other hand, are genuine appeals 
to our sense of fun. The authors frankly do their 
best to tickle us; and we are under no obligation to 
laugh if they fail, as we are to say Amen to the 
hypocrisies of the melodramatist. When they do not 
fail, they prove that they possess some humorous 
faculty, however schoolboyish it may be; and they 
seldom pretend to anything more. The danger of the 
‘‘ Miss Brown ” business is that it leads actor-managers 
— Mr. Kerr, for instance, if I may judge from a re- 
port of his speech at the Playgoers’? Club — into the 
wild error that people want to be amused and pleased, 
and go to the theatre with that object. As a matter 
of fact, they want nothing of the sort. They want to 
be excited, and upset, and made miserable, to have their 
flesh set creeping, to gloat and quake over scenes of 
misfortune, injustice, violence, and cruelty, with the 
discomfiture and punishment of somebody to make the 
ending “happy.” The only sort of horror they dislike 
is the horror that they cannot fasten on some individual 
whom they can hate, dread, and finally torture after 
revelling in his crimes. For instance, 1f Ibsen were to 
rewrite “ Ghosts,” and make Mrs. Alving murder her 
husband, flog Regina, burn down the orphanage pur- 
posely, and be killed with a hatchet by Engstrand just 
a moment too late to save Oswald from filially taking 
her guilt on himself and then, after drinkig poison to 
escape the scaffold, dying to slow music in the act of 
being united to Regina by Pastor Manders, the play 
would have an immense vogue, and be declared full of 
power and pity. Ibsen, being apparently of opinion 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 265 


that there is quite enough horror in the ordinary 
routine of respectable life without piling Pelion on 
Ossa, sends away his audience with their thirst for 
blood and revenge unsatisfied and their self-compla- 
cency deeply wounded. Hence their murmurs against 
him. What is the secret of the overwhelming repu- 
tation of Edmund Kean among the English actors of 
this century? Hazlitt reveals it thus: “ Mr. Kean’s 
imagination appears not to have the principles of joy 
or hope or love in it. He seems chiefly sensible to 
pain or to the passions that spring from it, and to 
the terrible energies of mind or body which are neces- 
sary to grapple with it.” I know that some of our 
theatrical experts believe that the truly popular trait 
for a stage hero nowadays is the sort of maudlin good- 
nature that is an essential part of the worthlessness of 
the average Strand bar-loafer. But I have never seen 
much evidence in favor of this idea; and my faith in 
it is not increased by the entire concurrence of the 
public in my view of Dick Hallward and the barrister 
in “ Her Advocate.” What the public likes is a villain 
to torment and persecute the heroine, and a hero to 
thrash and baffle the villain. Not that it matters much, 
since what the public likes is entirely beside the question 
of what it can get. When the popular tribune demands 
“ good words” from Coriolanus, he replies, *‘ He that 
will give good words to thee will flatter beneath ab- 
horring ”; and no great play can ever be written by 
a man who will allow the public to dictate to him. 
Even if the public really knew what it likes and what 
it dislikes — a consummation of wisdom which it is as 
far from as any child—the true master-dramatist 
would still give it, not what it likes, but what is good 
for it. 


266 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


This brings me to the announcement of the last 
nights of “ The Benefit of the Doubt.” A run of two 
months, though not brilliant in comparison with that 
of “ Charley’s Aunt,” is not bad for an entirely serious 
work of art, especially when it 1s considered that some 
of the most important parts are so badly acted that 
I had to point out after the first night that they might 
possibly lead to the failure of the piece. The sympa- 
thetic part of the play is original and unconventional, 
so that the sympathy does not flow in the old ready- 
made channels. Now it 1s only by a poignant beauty 
of execution that new channels can be cut in the ob- 
durate rock of the public’s hardened heart; and the 
best stage execution that Mr. Pinero could command 
was for the most part ugly and clumsy. We shall 
presently have him sharing the fate of Ibsen, and hay- 
ing his plays shirked with wise shakes of the head by 
actor-managers who have neither the talent to act them 
nor the brains to understand them. Why was I born 
into such a generation of duffers! 

By the way, I have discovered, quite by accident, an 
amusing farcical comedy. Somebody told me that 
there was a farce by Mr. W. D. Howells at the Avenue 
Theatre. I looked in the daily paper, but could find 
no mention of the name of Mr. Howells. However, it 
was evidently quite possible that the management had 
never heard of Mr. Howells, just as they had appar- 
ently never heard of me. So I went, and duly found 
the name “ Howels” on the programme. The little 
piece showed, as might have been expected, that with 
three weeks’ practice the American novelist could write 
the heads off the poor bunglers to whom our managers 
generally appeal when they want a small bit of work 
to amuse the people who come at eight. But no doubt 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 267 


it is pleasanter to be a novelist, to have an intelligent 
circle of readers comfortably seated by their firesides 
or swinging sunnily in hammocks in their gardens, to 
be pleasantly diffuse, to play with your work, to be 
independent of time and space, than to conform to the 
stern conditions of the stage and fight with stupidity 
before and behind the curtain. Mr. Howells’ piece was 
followed by a harmlessly naughty and highly entertain- 
ing adaptation by Mr. Burnand of a certain French 
play unknown to me, entitled “ Madame Mongodin,” 
by Ernest Blum and Raoul Toche. In it Mr. Charles 
Hawtrey is irresistibly droll; and Miss Lottie Venne 
does some clever and funny acting in addition to her 
old repertory of laughtraps and the inevitable though 
obsolescent comic song. A Miss Oliff, whom I do not 
remember to have seen before, comes very near making 
an artistic success in the title part, only missing it by 
a few unhappy lapses into clowning at the crucial pas- 
sages, according to the tradition of the English stage, 
where people are always so carefully taught by the 
siage-manager to force the fun and spoil it. If Miss 
Qliff would only try the effect of playing the part with 
absolute sincerity throughout, and, without slackening 
her grip, absolutely refuse to give away her handsome 
style at any moment for the sake of raising a silly 
heehaw by a grimace or an ugly sound or gesture, she 
would distinguish herself considerably. Miss Ada Mal- 
lon and Mr. W. F. Hawtrey help the performance ma- 
terially; and the rest, though they act very indiffer- 
ently, do not hinder it. 


268 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


THE OLD ACTING AND THE NEW 


The Comedy of Errors. Performance by the Eliza- 
bethan Stage Society in Gray’s Inn Hall, 7 December, 
1895. 


OR a delightful, as distinguished from a commer- 
KK cially promising first might, the palm must be 

given this season to the Elizabethan Stage So- 
ciety’s performance of “ The Comedy of Errors” in 
Gray’s Inn Hall this day week. Usually I enjoy a 
first night as a surgeon enjoys an operation: this time 
I enjoyed it as a playgoer enjoys a pleasant perform- 
ance. I have never, I hope, underrated the importance 
of the amateur; but I am now beginning to cling to 
him as the savior of theatrical art. He alone among 
the younger generation seems to have any experience of 
acting. Nothing is more appalling to the dramatic 
author than the discovery that professional actors of 
ten years’ standing have acquired nothing but a habit 
of brazening out their own incompetence. What is an 
actor nowadays, or an actress? In nine cases out of ten, 
simply a person who has been “ on tour ” with half-a- 
dozen “ London successes,” playing parts that involve 
nothing but a little business thoughtlessly copied from 
the performances of their London “ creators,” with 
long intervals spent between each tour in the ranks of 
the unemployed. At the end of a lifetime so spent, the 
“actor ” will no doubt be a genuine expert at railway 
travelling, at taking lodgings, and at cajoling and 
bullying landladies; but a decent amateur of two years’ 
standing, and of the true irrepressible sort, will beat 
him hopelessly at his art. What a fate is that of 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 269 


these unhappy young professionals, sick to desperation 
of a provincial routine compared to which that of a 
commercial traveller is a dream of romance, longing 
for a chance which they have not skill enough to turn 
to account even if some accident thrust it upon them, 
and becoming less interesting and attractive year by 
year at a profession in which the steady increase of 
personal fascination should have no limit but positive 
senility and decrepitude! I remember, years ago, 
when the Playgoers’ Club was in its infancy, hearing 
Mr. Pinero, in the course of an address to that body, 
break into an enthusiastic eulogium on the actor of the 
past, produced by the old stock-company system, versa- 
tile, a singer, a dancer, a fencer, an elocutionist, ready 
to play any part at a day’s notice, and equally expert 
in comedy, drama, melodrama, Christmas pantomime, 
and “ the legitimate.”” ‘There is some German novel in 
which a crowd of medieval warriors, fired by the elo- 
quence of Peter the Hermit, burns with a Christian 
longing to rush to the Holy Land and charge in serried 
ranks on the Paynim hosts — all except one man, who 
is obviously not impressed. Indignant at his coldness, 
they demand what he means by it. “I’ve been there,” 
is his sufficient explanation. That is how I felt when 
I was listening to Mr. Pinero. Having been brought 
up on the old stock-company actor, I knew that he was 
the least versatile of beings — that he was nailed help- 
lessly to his own line of heavy or light, young or old, 
and played all the parts that fell to him as the repre- 
sentative of that line in exactly the same way. I knew 
that his power of hastily “ swallowing ” the words of 
a part and disgorging them at short notice more or 
less inaccurately and quite unimprovably (three months’ 
rehearsal would have left him more at sea than three 


270 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


hours’) was incompatible with his ever knowing his part 
in any serious sense at all. I remembered his one ab- 
surd ‘combat ” that passed for fencing, the paltry 
stepdance between the verses of his song in the panto- 
mime that constituted him a dancer, the obnoxiousness 
of utterance which he called elocution and would im- 
part to pupils for a consideration, the universal readi- 
ness which only meant that in his incorrigible remote- 
ness from nature and art it mattered nothing what he 
did. Mr. Pinero madly cited Sir Henry Irving as an 
example of the product of the stock-company training; 
but the fact is, when Sir Henry first attempted classical 
acting at the Lyceum, he did not know the A B C of 
it, and only succeeded by his original and sympathetic 
notions of the X Y Z. Nobody who is familiar with 
the best technical work of the Irving of to-day, its 
finish, dignity, and grace, and the exactitude of its 
expression of his thought and feeling, can (unless he 
remembers) form any idea of what our chief actor had 
to teach himself before he could carry veteran play- 
goers with him in his breach with the tradition of 
superhuman acting of which Barry Sullivan was, as 
far as I know, the last English exponent (need I say 
that the great Irish actor was born in Birmingham?). 
Barry Sullivan was a splendidly monstrous performer 
in his prime: there was hardly any part sufficiently 
heroic for him to be natural in it. He had deficiencies 
in his nature, or rather blanks, but no weaknesses, be- 
cause he had what people call no heart. Being a fine 
man, as proud as Lucifer, and gifted with an intense 
energy which had enabled him to cultivate himself 
physically to a superb degrce, he was the very incarna- 
tion of the old individualistic, tyrannical conception of 
a great actor. By magnifying that conception to sub- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 271 


limity, he reduced it to absurdity. There were just two 
serious parts which he could play— Hamlet and 
Richelieu — the two loveless parts in the grand reper- 
tory. I know that some people do not like to think 
of Hamlet as loveless, and that the Irving Hamlet has 
his heart in the right place, and almost breaks it in 
the scene with Ophelia; but this I take to be the actor’s 
rebuke to Shakespeare rather than an attempt to fulfil 
his intentions. Sir Henry Irving has never thought 
much of the immortal William, and has given him more 
than one notable lesson — for instance, in “ The Mer- 
chant of Venice,”? where he gave us, not “the Jew 
that Shakespeare drew,”’ but the one he ought to have 
drawn if he had been up to the Lyceum-mark. Barry 
Sullivan, with his gift of lovelessness, was Hamlet, and 
consequently used to put his Ophelias out of counte- 
nance more than it is easy to describe. In Hamlet, as 
in Richelieu, it was right to create a figure whose utter 
aloofness from his fellows gave him an almost super- 
natural distinction, and cut him off from all such 
trifling intimacy with them as love implies. And it 
was his success in producing this very curious and very 
imposing effect that made for Barry Sullivan, in his 
best days (I am not now speaking of the period after 
1870 or thereabout), a unique provincial and Aus- 
tralian reputation which carried him over parts he 
could not play at all, such as Othello, through which he 
walked as if the only line in the play that conveyed any 
idea to him was the description of Othello as “ per- 
plexed in the extreme,” or Macbeth, who was simply 
Cibber’s Richard (a favorite part of his) in mutton- 
chop whiskers. No doubt his temperament, with its 
exceptional combination of imaginative energy with 
coldness and proud timidity of the sympathetic pas- 


272 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


sions, accentuated the superhuman pretension in the 
style of acting which he practised; but his predecessor, 
Macready (if I may judge from that extremely de- 
pressing document, his diary) must have been much 
more like him than like Sir Henry Irving. At all 
events, both Macready and Sullivan had abominable 
tempers, and relied for their stage climaxes on effects 
of violence and impetuosity, and for their ordinary 
impressiveness on grandiose assumption of style. Once, 
when my father mentioned to me that he had seen 
Macready play Coriolanus, and I asked him what it 
was like, he replied that 1t was hke a mad bull. I do 
not offer this as evidence that my critical faculty is an 
inherited one —clearly there must have been some 
artistic method in the bull’s madness to have gained 
such a reputation — but I feel quite sure that when Sir 
Henry Irving fulfils his promise to appear as Corio- 
lanus, no father will describe him to his son as my 
father described Macready to me. Barry Sullivan, then, 
represented the gradiose and the violent on its last 
legs, and could do nothing for the young Irving but 
mislead him. Irving’s mission was to re-establish on 
the stage the touching, appealing nobility of sentiment 
and affection — the dignity which only asserts itself 
when it is wounded; and his early attempts to express 
these by the traditional methods of the old domineer- 
ing, self-assertive, ambitious, thundering, superb school 
led him for a time into a grotesque confusion of style. 
In playing villains, too, his vein of callous, humorous 
impishness, with its occasional glimpses of a latent 
bestial dangerousness, utterly defied the methods of 
expression proper to the heaven-defying, man-quelling 
tyrant, usurper, and murderer, who was the typical 
villain of the old school, and whose flavorless quintes- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS) 273 


sence will be found by the curious distilled into that 
instructive Shakespearean forgery, Ireland’s “ Vor- 
tigern.” In short, Irving had to find the right ex- 
pression for a perfectly new dignity and a perfectly 
new indignity; and it was not until he had done this 
that he really accomplished his destiny, broke the old 
tradition, and left Barry Sullivan and Macready half- 
a-century behind. I will not say that he also left 
Shakespeare behind: there is too much of the “not 
for an age but for all time ” about our bard for that; 
but it is a pity that the new acting was not applied 
to a new author. For though Sir Henry Irving’s act- 
ing is no longer a falsification of the old style, his 
acting versions are falsifications of the old plays. His 
Hamlet, his Shylock, his Lear, though interesting in 
their own way, are spurious as representations of 
Shakespeare. His Othello I have never seen: his Mac- 
beth I thought fine and genuine, indicating that his 
business is with Shakespeare’s later plays and not with 
his earlier ones. But he owes it to literature to con- 
nect his name with some greater modern dramatist 
than the late Wills, or Tennyson, who was not really 
a dramatist at all. There is a niece bishop’s part in 
Ibsen’s — but I digress. 

My point is that Sir Henry Irving’s so-called train- 
ing under the old stock-company system not only did 
not give him the individuality of his style — for to that 
it did not pretend — but that it failed to give him 
even those generalities of stage deportment which are 
common to all styles. The stock actor, when the first 
travelling companies came along, vanished before them, 
unwept, unhonored, and unsung, because the only senti- 
ment he had inspired in the public was an intense desire 
for some means of doing without him. He was such an 


274 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


unpresentable impostor that the smart London person, 
well dressed and well spoken, figuring in plays in- 
geniously contrived so as to dispense with any greater 
powers of acting than every adroit man of the world 
picks up, came as an inexpressible relief. Dare I now 
confess that I am beginning to have moments of regret 
for him? The smart nullity of the London person 1s 
becoming intolerably tedious; and the exhaustion of 
the novelty of the plays constructed for him has 
stripped them of their illusion and left their jingling, 
rickety mechanism patent to a disgusted public. The 
latest generation of “ leading ladies ” and their heroes 
simply terrify me: Mr. Bourchier, who had the good 
fortune to learn his business as an amateur, towers 
above them as an actor. And the latest crop of plays 
has been for the most part deliberately selected for 
production because of the very abjectness and venality 
which withered them, harvestless, almost as soon as they 
were above ground. 

And yet there is more talent now than ever — more 
skill now than ever —more artistic culture — better 
taste, better acting, better theatres, better dramatic 
literature. Mr. Tree, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Hare, have 
made honorable experiments; Mr. Forbes Robertson’s 
enterprise at the Lyceum is not a sordid one; Mr. 
Henry Arthur Jones and Mr. Pinero are doing better 
work than ever before, and doing it without any craven 
concession to the follies of “‘ the British public.” But 
it is still necessary, if you want to feel quite reassured, 
to turn your back on the ordinary commercial West 
End theatre, with its ignoble gambling for “a catch- 
on,” and its eagerly envious whisperings of how much 
Mr. Penley has made by “ Charley’s Aunt,” to watch 
the forlorn hopes that are led from time to time by 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 275 


artists and amateurs driven into action by the starva- 
tion of their artistic instincts. The latest of these is 
the Elizabethan Stage Society; and I am delighted to 
be able to taunt those who missed the performance in 
Gray’s Inn Hall with being most pitiably out of the 
movement. ‘The Lyceum itself could not have drawn 
a more distinguished audience; and the pleasant effect 
of the play, as performed on the floor of the hall with- 
out proscenium or fittings of any kind, and played 
straight through in less than an hour and a half with- 
out any division into acts, cannot be as much as 
imagined by any frequenter of our ordinary theatres. 
The illusion, which generally lapses during perform- 
ances in our style whenever the principal performers are 
off the stage, was maintained throughout: neither the 
torchbearers on the stage nor the very effective oddity 
of the Dromio costumes interfering with it in the least. 
Only, the modern dresses of the audience, the gasaliers, 
and the portrait of Manisty next that of Bacon, were 
anachronisms which one had to ignore. The stage man- 
agement was good as regards the exits, entrances, and 
groupings——not so good in the business of the 
speeches, which might have been made more helpful to 
the actors, especially to Adriana, whose best speeches 
were underdone. On the whole, the acting was fair — 
much better than it would have been at an average 
professional performance. Egeon, one of the Dromios, 
and the courtezan distinguished themselves most. The 
evening wound up with a Dolmetsch concert of lute and 
viol, virginal and voice, a delectable entertainment 


which defies all description by the pen. 


276 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


MR. JOHN HARE 


John Hare, Comedian: a biography by T. Edgar Pem- 
berton. London and New York: George Routledge & 
Sons. 1895. 


actors of my time, nothing has surprised me more 

in reading this book than the number of impersona- 
tions of his which I have seen and totally forgotten. 
A real part well acted is to me more easily and per- 
fectly memorable than most things; so, considering 
how well I remember the good parts I have seen Mr. 
Hare play, and that all his parts may safely be taken 
to have been well acted, I cannot help feeling that every 
part I forget raises a question as to whether it was a 
real part or not. Further, I am reminded that Mr. 
Hare made a great success as a manager — that the 
mounting and acting, the elaborate rehearsing and 
thoughtfully minute preparation of plays at his theatre 
were the admiration of the critics to whom Robertson 
was as much the pioneer of a new order as Ibsen is 
to the present generation. In the days of Mr. Hare’s 
reign at the old Court Theatre, and of the St. James’s 
under the Hare-Kendal management, I quite agreed in 
this opinion. But the Garrick period is another affair. 
There was no carelessness, no slackening at the new 
house; and yet it seemed to me that Mr. Forbes Rob- 
ertson and Miss Kate Rorke acted worse and worse 
throughout their long engagement there; whilst as for 
the stage management, a climax of something like un- 
sympathetic ineptitude was reached in “ Mrs. Lessing- 
ham.” No mortal playgoer, however credulous, could 


|: view of the fact that Mr. Hare is one of the best 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 277 


have believed in the third act of that play as it was 
put on the Garrick stage. Poor Mrs. Lessingham, 
fainting with the shock of catching her husband em- 
bracing another lady on the summit of an eminence 
visible from seven counties, or dying by her own hand, 
after a prolonged scene of deepening despair, in a room 
like Maple’s shop window, had no more chance than 
‘¢ A Scrap of Paper ” would have had if mounted in the 
style of “ Pelléas et Mélisande.” The fact is, that in 
the seventies and eighties, the art of stage management 
meant the art of making the stage look like a real room 
in a richly and handsomely furnished London house; 
and this Mr. Hare did to perfection, with every nicety 
of discrimination between Russell Square and Park 
Lane. A well-kept gentleman’s garden in Surrey, or 
even a pretty old vicarage, he could turn out also. 
There was another thing that he understood. Mr. 
Pemberton quotes Mr. Clement Scott on Mr. Bancroft 
in the early Robertson days. “ Think what it was to 
see a bright, cheery, pleasant young fellow playing the 
lover to a pretty girl at the time when stage lovers 
were nearly all sixty, and dressed like waiters at a 
penny-ice shop.” Now these cheery, pleasant fellows, 
so smartly tailored and exactly true to nature in the 
young male as we see him at suburban garden parties 
or in the first-class carriage of the city train, would 
have made wings, flats, canvas doors and carpetless 
boards as ridiculous as pasteboard fowls, or white 
chairs with red damask seats and a strip of gold tinsel 
down the leg. They needed Mr. Hare’s interiors to 
move in. And they were indeed delightful when they 
got them. Young persons who saw the revival of 
“ Caste’? at the Garrick in 1894 may imagine that they 
enjoyed it as their fathers enjoyed it. They are wrong. 


278 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


They can never know what it was to see on the stage a 
gentleman who looked like a gentleman walking into a 
drawing-room that looked like a drawing-room after a 
lifetime spent in contemplating performances compared 
to which an average representation of “ La Traviata ” 
at Covent Garden might pass as photographically 
realistic. It was Mr. Hare who carried this art to its 
summit; and since the youngest generation of London 
playgoers, taking such staging as a matter of course, 
may be unable to conceive the pleasure it gave when it 
was new, it is only fair to tell them how much they 
owe him for a reform which was of high artistic im- 
portance in bringing the stage into closer connection 
with contemporary life. I do not say that the stage 
drawing-rooms of the old Court and the St. James’s 
were better than “ four boards and a passion”; but 
they were worlds above flats, wings, sky borders and 
no passion, which was the practical alternative. 

Now in art, as in politics, there is no such thing 
as gratitude. It is one thing to banish vulgarity and 
monstrosity from the stage and replace them by con- 
ventional refinement and scrupulous verisimilitude. It 
is quite another to surround a real drama with its 
appropriate atmosphere, and provide a poctic back- 
ground or an ironically prosaic setting for a tragic 
scene. There are some rooms in which no reasonable 
person could possibly commit suicide; and when Mr. 
Hare provided just such a one for Mrs. Lessingham, 
he showed that he was not a stage manager in the same 
sense as Sir Henry Irving, for instance. Even in the 
matter of refinement he is no longer in the front rank. 
When Mr. Henry Arthur Jones produced “ ‘The Cru- 
saders ”? at the Avenue Theatre under his own manage- 
ment, as a sort of polite hint to whomsoever it might. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 279 


concern that an author could do without an actor- 
manager better than an actor-manager could do with- 
out an author, he, being a disciple of Ruskin, repudi- 
ated the once admired gentlemanly apartment, and 
went off to Mr. William Morris in search of a beau- 
tiful room. The scene in that play called “The 
Parsley Garland,” was the first piece of artistic as 
distinguished from commercial decoration I remember 
to have seen on the stage as a representation of a 
modern room. ‘There must be some young people in 
the world whose first visit to a theatre was to ‘‘ The 
Crusaders,” and who afterwards went to see “Slaves 
of the Ring” at the Garrick. I am afraid, after the 
Parsley Garland, they will open their eyes very wide 
indeed at the suggestion implied in Mr. Pemberton’s 
book that the ugly plutocratic interior in the first act 
of Mr. Grundy’s play, and the appalling conservatory 
in the last act, where Miss Kate Rorke jumped through 
the fir-tree, may be taken as samples of the taste of 
the acknowledged chief of stage managers in that class 
of work. It is but fair to explain to them that the 
work of making the stage clean, handsome, fashionable, 
correct, costly, and thoroughly gentlemanly, was an 
indispensable preliminary to any movement towards 
beauty, individuality, and imaginative setting. 

If Mr. Hare’s scenic foundations are by this time 
built upon and hidden, what shall be said of the 
“bright, cheery, pleasant young fellows ” who belonged 
to them? For thirty years we have sat at the play 
feeding our romantic imaginations on the “ good 
form ” of young stockbrokers and civil servants. Mr. 
Hare was always an excellent host; and when he in- 
vited us to meet those nice people the Kendals, we knew 
that we could count upon amusement, instruction in 


280 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


manners, dress, and furnishing, and the contemplation 
of an edifying example of stamless domestic virtue. 
Still, so unregenerate is human nature, that the main 
part of the attraction was the amusement; and the 
amusement depended on the circumstance that Mrs. 
Kendal could act and so could Mr. Hare. Even Mr. 
Kendal was a bit of a comedian, and was always agree- 
able and sincere. ‘They represented a generation of 
actors who had toned their acting down and their dress 
and manners up to stockbroker-civil-servant pitch. 
This was all very well whilst it lasted; but unfortu- 
nately the drawing-room drama, being artistically a 
sterile hybrid, could not renew the generation of actors; 
and now the Kendals are replaced by couples equal to 
them in dress, manners, good looks, and domestic moral- 
ity, but subject to the disadvantage of not possessing 
in their two united persons as much power of acting as 
there was in the tip of Mrs. Kendal’s little finger-nail. 
Besides, there has come along the terrible Ibsen. ‘The 
stockbrokerly young gentleman, standing on the stage 
with his manners carefully turned to the audience lke 
the painted side of an old stage banner, has suddenly 
been taken by the scruff of the neck by the grim Nor- 
wegian giant, and, with one ruthless twist, whisked 
round with his seamy side to the footlights, to stare 
in helpless bewilderment at the atmosphere of poetry, 
imagination, tragedy, irony, pity, terror, and all the 
rest of it, suddenly rising in the theatre from which 
they had been swept, he had hoped, for ever, along 
with the “ stage lovers nearly all sixty and dressed like 
waiters at a penny-ice shop.” And now he may shrick, 
with Judge Brack, that “ people don’t do such things ”; 
he may plunge back to Whitechapel Road melodrama 
or forward to the best imitation “* problem plays ”; but 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 281 


he will struggle in vain against the fact that the surest 
way of boring yourself to death of an evening now is 
to go to the theatre. The drawing-room comedy of 
furniture and manners, with a tastefully conducted in- 
trigue as a pretext, is as dead as Donizetti and deader. 
The novelty of the change from the penny-ice shopman 
to the gentleman is exhausted; and now the people 
want a change from the gentleman to the actor. 
Certain fine actors of the Robertsonian epoch can 
still attract us with the art of that period, and are 
even taken as models with success by younger artists, 
just as Patti keeps “ Una Voce” and “ Bel raggio ” 
alive, and is followed to some extent by Melba, in spite 
of Wagner and Calve. Mr. Hare is just such a sur- 
vival. As an actor he has had to work in a drama so 
superficial that his fame rests largely upon that most 
unreal of all stage pretences, a young man pretending 
to be a very old one. Mr. Hare, in these parts, used 
to make himself up cleverly; and he is the sort of man 
whose voice, figure, and manner, vary comparatively 
little from twenty-five to seventy. But that any play- 
goer who had ever seen Chippendale could have mis- 
taken Mr. Hare’s business for the real thing is beyond 
my belief. As a matter of fact we did not make any 
such mistake: the fun of Mr. Hare’s old men was the 
cleverness of the imitation, which was amusing even 
when his part was utterly uninteresting in itself. Now 
that he is between fifty and sixty, his acting of elderly 
parts is no longer a pretence; consequently we no 
longer chuckle at it: we are touched — which is much 
better — if the part is a touching one. Fortunately for 
me, the first part I ever saw Mr. Hare play (my first 
ten years’ experience as a playgoer was not gained in 


London) was that of the boy Archie in “ A Scrap of 


282 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Paper.” I remember Archie perfectly — should know 
him if I met him to-morrow. But Mr. Hare’s made-up 
old men I forget as individuals, though I can recall 
certain stage moments in which they figured. For 
example, I can see him in ** The Queen’s Shilling ” grip- 
ping Mr. Kendal’s wounded arm; and the picture re- 
calls the make-up, uniform, and general aspect of the 
Colonel; but this recollection of a painful scene, which 
would be equally vivid had the officer been the young 
man and the soldier the old one, is quite a different 
affair from recollection of a character. Again, I recol- 
lect his Jack Pontifex in “ Mamma” (Duval in ‘ Les 
Surprises de Divorce”) as his masterpiece in farcical 
comedy; and Jack Pontifex was younger, not older, 
than Mr. Hare. His Baron Croodle in “ 'The Money 
Spinner ” was a genuine impersonation: I shall never 
forget that old blackguard. His unvenerable years, 
however, were the merest accident. Jack Pontifex was 
especially interesting to the critic because Mr. Hare 
has very seldom played what may be called a standard 
part: that is, one in which his performance can be 
compared with that of other eminent performers in his 
line. Luckily, “ Les Surprises de Divorce” had been 
made famous by Coquelin, the greatest comedian known 
to us. Mr. Hare had by no means the worst of the 
comparison in point of execution. In the great scene 
in the second act, where the wretched musician, having 
escaped by divorce from an unbearable mother-in-law, 
and settled down on his remarriage into tranquil do- 
mestic felicity, sees the terrible old woman re-enter, 
imposed on him again in the old relation by a fresh 
turn of the matrimonial courts, Mr. Hare surpassed 
Coquelin. Coquelin clowned it, even to the length of 
bounding into the air and throwing forward his arms 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 2838 


and legs as if to frighten off some dangerous animal. 
But he did not produce the electric effect of Mr. Hare’s 
white, tense face and appalled stare, conveying some- 
how a mad speed of emotion and a frightful suspense 
of action never to be forgotten by any playgoer with 
the true dramatic memory. Coquelin’s compensation 
in the comparison lay in the greater fulness of his 
contributions to the drama. He played between the 
lines, and quadrupled the value of the part: Mr. Hare, 
with his swift, crisp method, and his habit of picking 
up a cue as if it were a cricket-ball to be smartly 
fielded, only made the most of the play as it was. No 
doubt Mr. Hare’s method is the right method for a man 
who forms his conclusions rapidly and gives them 
instantaneous and incisive expression; but Duval, in 
‘‘ Les Surprises,” was certainly not that sort of man. 
Nothing could have been truer or more entertaining 
than Coquelin’s play in the first act, where he shows 
out the gentleman and his daughter who have come to 
look at the rooms he wished to let. It was not from 
anything that Duval said that you saw that the daugh- 
ter had made an impression on him. As he slowly came 
back with preoccupied gait from the door, you could 
read a whole chapter of unconscious autobiography in 
the changes of his face; and when at last, after a long 
but most eloquent and interesting silence, the words 
“ Fille est charmante!” slipped from him, he had in 
effect left the technical cue for that speech half-a-dozen 
well-filled pages behind. Mr. Hare’s method is too im- 
patient, and his imagination too dry and sane for this; 
consequently he adds little or nothing to the written 
part, whereas with Coquelin the written part is always 
the merest skeleton of his creation. What Mr. Hare 
does do he does as well, and here and there better than 


284 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the French comedian. It is unreasonable to say to an 
artist who has done so much so finely that he might 
have done more; and I only say it myself to encourage 
the others. In so rapidly progressive a business as fine 
art now is in England, no mortal man can lead more 
than one generation. No doubt Mr. Hare ought to 
have done for Ibsen what he did for Robertson: for 
example, he might have created old Ekdal in “ ‘The 
Wild Duck,” instead of leaving that immortalizing 
chance to an amateur. But in his early days the 
standard classic was ‘“ London Assurance”; and 
throughout his management at the old Court and the 
St. James’s, the plays he produced were, after all, the 
best to be had. Some, like ** The Hobby Horse,” were 
too good for the public; and many were excellent 
plays of their kind, superexcellently done. All one 
can say is that the poetry of the Ellen Terry days, 
of “ New Men and Old Acres” (a piffling play, only I 
can still see and hear Lilian Vavasour crying like mad 
in it) and of “ Olivia,” stands the test of time better 
than the clever prose of the Kendal period. Miss 
Terry had at that time hidden somewhere about her 
a certain perverse devil, since exorcised by the elevating 
influence of the Lyceum Theatre and that actress- 
devouring ogre William Shakespeare, which gave the 
most curious naughty-child charm to Lilian and Olivia. 
Nowadays you can only admire or adore: then she 
gave you something to forgive and coaxed you to for- 
give it. The coaxing was a surprisingly pleasant pro- 
cess; and as I was one of those who experienced ite 
should advise the public not to pay too much attention 
to my criticisms of Miss Terry, as they are sure to be 
grossly partial. And that partiality I owe among 
other things to Mr. Hare. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 285 


I leave the subject only half exhausted for lack of 
space. I can only add that the book ends with a testi- 
monial to Mr. Hare’s professional competency, and a 
recommendation of him to the encouraging notice of 
the American nation from the Siddonian hand of 
Mary Anderson de Navarro. How proud Mr. Hare 
must feel! It is just lke our Mary’s—HI mean it 
does credit to Madame de Navarro’s feelings. 


ONE OF THE WORST 


One of the Best: a drama in four acts. By Seymour 
Hicks and George Edwardes. Adelphi Theatre, 21 
December, 1895. 


; | \HE new entertainment at the Adelphi has for its 
object the reproduction on the stage of the 
dramatic effect of the military ceremony of 

degradation undergone not long ago in France by 

Captain Dreyfus. ‘The idea is not a bad one from 

the Adelphi point of view; but the work of setting 

it into a dramatic frame has fallen into the wrong 
hands, the two authors’ familiarity with the stage and 
its requirements only giving an absurdly cheerful and 

confident air to their feeble and slippery grip of a 

subject much too big for them. 

The Dreyfus affair was interesting in many ways. 
It was French — French in the most unEnglish way, 
because it was not only theatrical, but theatrical at 
the expense of common sense and public policy. At 
the Adelphi Mr. Terriss is able to exclaim at the end 
of the piece that no English officer has ever betrayed 


286 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


his country; and this understanding, the value of 
which we are all sensible enough to appreciate, we 
keep up by breaking and getting rid of our Dreyfuses 
in the quietest possible manner, instead of advertising 
them by regimental coups de théatre which, in addition 
to being as demoralizing as public executions, would 
shatter that national confidence in the absolute integ- 
rity of our public services and institutions which we 
all keep up with such admirable esprit de corps, not 
that any of us believes in it, but because each of us 
thinks that it is good for all the rest to believe in it. 
Our plan is to govern by humbug, and to let everybody 
into the secret. The French govern by melodrama, and 
give everybody a part in the piece. The superiority 
of our system lies in the fact that nobody dislikes his 
share in it, whereas the French are badly hampered 
because you cannot have broadly popular melodrama 
without a villain, and nobody wants to be cast for the 
villain’s part. Consequently a delinquent like Dreyfus 
is a perfect godsend to the French authorities, and in- 
stantly has all the national limelights flashed on him, 
whereas here he would be quietly extinguished in sup- 
port of the theory that such conduct as his could not 
possibly occur in the British army. 

There is another weakness in the French method. 
Even when you have got your villain, how are you 
going to make him do his best for the effect of the 
sensation scene? At the Adelphi it is easy enough, 
since the villain, though he might often make a whole 
play ridiculous by a single disloyal intonation, can be 
depended on to omit no stroke of art that will intensify 
the loathing or louden the execrations of the gallery. 
It is his point of honor as an artist to blacken himself: 
he is paid to do it, proud to do it, and depends on doing 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 287 


it for his livelihood. But Dreyfus was not in this posi- 
tion. He had every possible motive to “queer the 
pitch ” of the military melodrama of which he was 
the villain and victim; and he did it most effectually. 
He declined to be impressed by the ceremony or to pre- 
tend that the parade of degradation was worse than 
death to him as a French soldier. He displayed a 
sardonic consciousness of the infinite tomfoolery of the 
whole proceeding, and succeeded in leaving all Europe 
able to think of nothing in connection with it except 
the ludicrous fact that the uniform which had been 
stripped and defaced had been carefully prepared for 
that stage trick the night before by having its facings 
and buttons ripped off in private and basted on again 
with light cotton. When the farce was over, he took 
the stage, shouted “ Vive la République,” and marched 
off, having made the hit of the piece, and leaving the 
Republic and its army looking like the merest crowd 
of “extras.” This was perhaps a mistake; for the 
shout of “ Vive la République ” was, at least to English 
ways of thinking, out of the wronged and innocent 
character which Dreyfus was assuming: at least, it is 
certain that an English officer, if innocent, would under 
such circumstances either keep his feelings to himself, 
or else, if unable to contain them, roundly and heartily 
damn his country, his colonel, the court-martial, the 
army, the sergeant, and everybody else on whom he 
could with any sort of relevance bring his tongue and 
temper to bear. 

A Dreyfus case is the less likely to arise here because 
we are not only free from the fear of mvasion from 
armed neighbors which makes Continental nations so 
sensitive on the subject of spies, but also less childishly 
addicted to keeping secrets that are no secrets. Cam- 


288 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


paigns depend on strategy, fighting, and money, not on 
patents; and a nation which had no better idea of 
preparation for war than hiding a secret explosive 
or a new weapon or an undisclosed plan of fortifica- 
tion up its sleeve — an idea which appears particularly 
plausible to the civilian imagination — would richly 
deserve what it would probably get in the field. We 
have many ways of making idiots of ourselves; but 
the Continental way of arresting artists on sketching 
tours, and confiscating drawings which give no infor- 
mation that cannot be obtained at any stationer’s 
shop where they sell maps, photographs, and rail- 
way time-tables, is one which we have so far spared 
ourselves. 

These observations are not very recondite; but they 
appear to have completely escaped the perspicacity of 
the authors of “ One of the Best.” In the second act 
an impossible K.C.B., A.D.C., declaims against the folly 
of England in allowing strangers to roam the land with 
kodaks, photographing her forts and worming out the 
secrets of the Tower of London, Woolwich Arsenal, 
Dover Castle, and other strongholds of our national 
independence, instead of imitating the heroic example 
of the foreigner by turning out the garrison and search- 
ing the pretended tourist, artist, and holiday-maker 
for concealed copies of the Monroe Doctrine. A gra- 
tuitously asinine opinion, I thought, which was received 
by the gallery with obediently asinine applause. The 
degradation scene showed an equal want of grasp of 
military life and English character. The one sentence 
that was taken from life as exemplified by Dreyfus was 
just the one sentence that stamped that gentleman as 
probably guilty. Lieutenant Dudley Keppel is made 
to finish his ordeal by shouting “‘ God save the Queen ” 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 289 


(the equivalent of “ Vive la République”), which at 
such a time can only mean either that the creature is 
tamed by discipline to the point of being an absolute 
spaniel, or else that he is a genuine criminal, asserting 
his highmindedness in a fine stock phrase, as all rascals 
do whenever they get a chance. On the points of 
Dreyfus’s bearing which seem worthy of imitation by 
officers in trouble, Dudley Keppel was resolutely orig- 
inal. He did his utmost to make the barbarous and 
silly spectacle a success by displaying frightful emo- 
tion. Before parting with his claymore he kissed it 
and then broke it across his knee, a proceeding which 
even the greenest country cousin in the pit must have 
known to be quite acutely the reverse of anything that 
a British officer could be conceived as doing upon any 
provocation or in any extremity. And yet the scene, 
properly rewritten, could be made highly entertaining 
with Mr. Fred Kerr instead of Mr. Terriss in the 
principal part. 

It is interesting to observe that Messrs. Hicks and 
Edwardes seem as incapable of realizing the reality 
and humanity of a woman as of a soldier. I am not 
now alluding to the maiden of Keppel’s heart. Like 
most such maidens she is a nonentity; and the unlucky 
lieutenant is driven to the most abject expedients to 
work up the sentiment in his love scene with her, shak- 
ing blossoms from a tree over her, and helplessly re- 
peating a catalogue of the most affecting objects and 
circumstances of the scene (provided on purpose), as, 
for instance, “ The old Abbey, the organ, the setting 
sun,” and so on. But there is another young and 
beauteous female in the piece, a Miss Esther Coventry, 
who in the most pathetically sentimental way commits 
a series of crimes which Jonathan Wild himself would 


290 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


hardly have gone through without moments of com- 
punction. Political treachery, theft, burglary, per- 
jury, all involving the most cruel consequences to her 
father and his amiable young lieutenant, are per- 
petrated by her without hesitation or apology to get 
money for a man with whom she is carrying on an 
intrigue out of pure love of deceit, there being no 
mortal reason why he should not woo her in honorable 
form. Throughout all her nefarious proceedings I 
failed to detect any sign of its having occurred to the 
authors that any moral responsibility attached to this 
young woman. In fulfilment of their design she went 
about with an interesting air of having sinned and 
suffered, cheating, lying, stealing, burgling, and bear- 
ing false witness exactly as if she were the heroine of 
the play, until, in the last scene in the barrack square, 
the rehabilitated Keppel suddenly said, “‘ Allow me,” 
and gallantly ordered his general to take that wounded 
dove to his manly bosom and be more a father to her 
than ever. As in real life the young lady could not, 
even by the most violent stretch of judicial leniency, 
have got off with less than ten years’ penal servitude, 
it was difficult, in spite of the magnificent air with 
which Mr. Terriss proclaimed the amnesty, to quite 
believe that the civil authorities would submit to be set 
aside in this manner; but apparently they did: at all 
events she was still in the peace of complete absolution 
when the curtain descended. 

On the whole, the play, even judged by melodra- 
matic standards, is a bad one. The degradation scene 
is effective in a way; but what that way is may best 
be shown by pointing out that if a military flogging 
had been substituted, the effect would have been still 
greater, though the tax on Mr. Terriss’s fortitude 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 291 


would no doubt have been unreasonable. The court- 
martial is also effective, but not more so than any 
trial scene must necessarily be. A trial is the last re- 
source of a barren melodramatist: it 1s so safe an 
expedient that improvised amateur attempts at it 
amused even the doomed aristocrats in the Paris prisons 
during the Terror. ‘The scene of the attempt to rob 
the safe produces a certain curiosity as to how the 
authors will bring about the foregone conclusion of 
fixing the guilt on the innocent Keppel; but the clum- 
siness of the solution soon melts this curiosity into a 
sensation like that of watching a bad chess-player. 
Then there is the scene in which the villain is thrown 
like a welsher on a racecourse to a savage crowd, who 
delight the audience by making as plausible a pretence 
of tearing him to pieces as is consistent with the integ- 
rity of Mr. Abingdon’s person. The comic scenes may 
be divided into three parts: first, puerile jokes about 
the deficiencies in a Highlander’s uniform and the situ- 
ation of the “ pistol pocket ” in the bicycling suit worn 
by Miss Vane Featherstone; second, speeches not in 
the least funny which are nevertheless funnily delivered 
by Mr. Harry Nicholls; and third, a certain quantity 
of tolerable fun mixed with a few puns and personali- 
ties, evidently the invention of that gifted comedian. 
The rest hardly rises sufficiently above nothingness to 
be as much as dull; and I see no reason to anticipate 
an exceptionally prosperous career for the play. Mr. 
George Edwardes was immensely congratulated on his 
appearance as an author, the audience seeming to re- 
gard it as an irresistible joke, and I am rather inclined 
to take that lenient view myself. If I am to take it 
seriously I can only say that however successful Mr. 
Edwardes may be as a manager, he must work a good 


292 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


deal harder if he wishes to succeed in a really difficult 
profession like that of dramatic authorship. 

The acting is, of course, consistently outrageous, 
though by no means unskilfully so. Mr. Terriss con- 
trives to retain his fascination even in tartan trousers; 
and he rises fully to such heights as there are in the 
trial scene and the degradation scene. It is always a 
pleasure to hear his voice now that we have on the 
stage so many made-up voices which ring with monot- 
onous sonority in the speakers’ noses. With the single 
exception of Mr. Bernard Gould, Mr. Terriss appears 
to be the only serious actor in his line from whom we 
hear a cultivated natural voice instead of an acquired 
artificial one. Of Miss Millward’s capacity I have no 
idea beyond the fact that she has clearly more than 
sufficient for such parts as are to be had at the Adelphi. 
Mr. Nicholls is an excellent actor: it is a thousand 
pities that his talent is only employed to put us into 
good humor with bad plays. 


NEW YEAR DRAMAS 


A Woman’s Reason. By Charles H. E. Brookfield and 
F. C. Philips. Shaftesbury Theatre, 27 December, 
1895. 


T was such a pleasure to see Mr. Lewis Waller and 
| his company divested of the trappings of Manx- 
manity and in their right minds again, that we 
all received “* A Woman’s Reason” with more gaiety 
and enthusiasm than can easily be justified in cold 
blood. The play has been produced, as far as I can 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 293 


guess, by the following process. One of the authors, 
whom I take to be Mr. Philips, wrote a commonplace 
Froufrou play, in a style so conscientiously and intol- 
erably literary that the persons of the drama do not 
hesitate to remark familiarly to their nearest and dear- 
est that “ Convention speaks one thing, whilst some 
sweeter voice whispers another.” The sweeter voice in 
the composing of the play, I assume, was Mr. Brook- 
field’s. Mr. Brookfield is an assiduous collector of 
conversational jeuz d’esprit, and is witty enough to be 
able to contribute occasionally to the museum himself. 
Such a collection, from its very miscellaneousness, is 
better for ordinary theatrical purposes than a complete 
philosophy reduced to aphorisms; and by sticking its 
plums into Mr. Philips’ literary dough with reckless 
profusion, Mr. Brookfield has produced a sufficiently 
toothsome pudding. 

The worst of it is that the Brookfieldian plums digest 
and are forgotten, whilst the Philipian suet remains 
heavy on soul and stomach. I cannot now remember a 
single one of Mr. Brookfield’s sallies, not even the one 
in which I recognized a long-lost child of my own. On 
the other hand, I do recollect, with a growing sense of 
injury, the assumption that the relation between a 
British officer and a cultivated Jewish gentleman who 
makes a trifle of seventy thousand a year or so in the 
City is the relation between Ivanhoe and Isaac of York, 
with its offensiveness somewhat accentuated by modern 
snobbery. When Captain Crozier proceeded to explain 
haughtily to Mr. Stephen D’Acosta that it was useless 
for two persons in their respective conditions to discuss 
a question of honor, as they could not possibly under- 
stand one another, I seemed to hear a voice from my 
boyhood — the voice of Howard Paul — singing: — 


294 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


I’m Captain Jinks of the Horse Marines; 
And I feed my horse on kidney beans: 
Of course it far exceeds the means 
Of a captain in the army. 


It is to this rustic conception of ‘fa captain in the 
army ” that we owe Crozier. And yet—would you 
believe it? — the performance at the Shaftesbury leaves 
one with a stronger sense of the reality of Captain 
Crozier than of any other person in the drama. This 
is largely due, no doubt, to Mr. Coghlan, who, having 
given himself complete rest from acting during his as- 
sumption of the part of Mercutio at the Lyceum, now 
resumes it at the Shaftesbury with all the vigor of a 
man who has had a thorough holiday. I do not say 
that Mr. Coghlan’s effects are made with the utmost 
economy of time and weight; but then it is perfectly 
in the character of the part and in the interest of the 
drama that Captain Crozier should be a comparatively 
slow, heavy person, in contrast to the keen, alert Jew. 
The presentation of a Bnitish officer as an over-eating, 
under-thinking person, professionally the merest routi- 
ncer, one who by dint of sincere aspiration and con- 
scientious plodding has learnt to play cards and bil- 
liards, to shoot, to bet, to do the correct thing in social 
emergencies, and in an irreproachably gentlemanly way 
to make women aware of his readiness to accept any 
degree of intimacy they may care to admit him to, is 
fair criticism of life; for wherever the social soil is 
manured by “ independent incomes,” it still produces 
large crops of such men (very pleasant fellows, many 
of them), though certainly the army has of late years 
become a much less eligible career for them than it was 
in the days of Captain Rawdon Crawley. The difficulty 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 295 


of giving the authors of “ A Woman’s Reason ” credit 
for a clever study of an officer of his type lies in the 
fact that, as I have already hinted, his speeches to 
D’Acosta show a quite romantic ignorance of the 
healthy promiscuity by which English society protects 
itself against all permanent Faubourg-St. Germain 
formations. Thanks to the truly blessed institution of 
primogeniture constantly thrusting down the great bulk 
of our aristocratic stock into the ranks of the com- 
moners, we are the most republican country in the 
world; and the ideas expressed by Captain Crozier at 
the Shaftesbury, though they might pass as part of the 
established currency on the Continent, and even in 
America, are here only the affectations of dukes’ house- 
keepers and Hampton Court pensioners. Nor can we, 
when the Captain foolishly hides in the lady’s bedroom 
from her husband, believe much more in him than in the 
domestic architecture which cuts that sacred apartment 
off from all ingress and egress save through the draw- 
ing-room. In fact, the bedroom incident elicited one 
of those jeers from the audience which will soon force 
even the most conservative West End manager to 
abjure through terror of the gallery that insane faith 
in worn-out stage tricks which seems proof against the 
printed persuasion of the stalls. There is much else in 
Captain Crozier’s part which is differentiated from the 
conventional seducer and villain business of melodrama 
rather by Mr. Coghlan’s acting than by the words put 
into his mouth; but the final touch, where he “ does the 
right thing” by telling the usual divorce-court le as 
to the lady’s spotlessness, and offering to marry her 
when he perceives that he runs no risk of being ac- 
cepted in view of her imminent reconciliation with her 
husband, is a genuine stroke of comedy and character. 


296 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Mr. Coghlan created the part, like a true actor, by 
the simple but very unusual method of playing it from 
its own point of view. The tradition of the stage is a 
tradition of villains and heroes. Skakespeare was a 
devout believer in the existence of the true villain — 
the man whose terrible secret is that his fundamental 
moral impulses are by some freak of nature inverted, 
so that not only are love, pity, and honor loathsome to 
him, and the affectation of them which society imposes 
on him a constant source of disgust, but cruelty, de- 
struction, and perfidy are his most luxurious passions. 
This is a totally different phenomenon from the sur- 
vivals of the ape and tiger in a normal man. The 
average normal man is covetous, lazy, selfish; but he 
is not malevolent, nor capable of saying to himself, 
“Evil: be thou my good.” He only does wrong as a 
means to an end, which he always represents to him- 
self as a right end. The case is exactly reversed with 
a villain; and it is my melancholy duty to add that we 
sometimes find it hard to avoid a cynical suspicion that 
the balance of social advantage is on the side of gifted 
villainy, since we see the able villain, Mephistopheles- 
like, doing a huge amount of good in order to win the 
power to do a little darling evil, out of which he 1s as 
likely as not to be cheated in the end; whilst your 
normal respectable man will countenance, connive at, 
and grovel his way through all sorts of meanness, base- 
ness, servility, and cruel indifference to suffering in 
order to enjoy a miserable two-pennorth of social posi- 
tion, piety, comfort, and domestic affection, of which 
he, too, is often ironically defrauded by Fate. I could 
point to a philanthropist or two — even to their statues 
— whom Posterity, should it ever turn from admiring 
the way they spent their money to considering the way 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 297 


they got it, will probably compare very unfavorably 
with Guy Fawkes. 

However, these reflections are beside the present pur- 
pose, which is only to show how our actors have been 
placed at cross-purposes with our authors by the tradi- 
tional stage villain being a monster, or perversion of 
nature, like Iago; whilst the gentleman who serves as 
a foil to the hero in a modern West End play is not a 
villain at all, but at worst a comparatively selfish, 
worthless fellow. As far as he is taken from life at 
all, he is suspiciously like the average man of the world 
as portrayed by Thackeray. Indeed, in the best mod- 
ern plays, and even in the best modern melodramas 
(for example, “ Held by the Enemy”), there is no 
wicked person at all. Ever since Milton struck the 
popular fancy by changing the devil into a romantic 
gentleman who was nobody’s enemy but his own, and 
thereby practically abolished the real devil, or god of 
villains, as a necessary figure in the world drama, play- 
goers have been learning to know themselves well 
enough to recognize that quite mischief enough for the 
plot of any ordinary play can be made by average 
ladies and gentlemen like themselves. Captain Crozier 
is not the least bit of a villain. He shows abject weak- 
ness in allowing Mrs. D’Acosta to ruin him and make 
him ridiculous by dragging him out of a seventy-thou- 
sand-a-year mansion in which he is most comfortably 
installed as tame cat, with the certainty that she will 
throw him over without scruple as a moral outcast the 
moment she is tired of him; but one feels that, after 
all, it does not greatly matter, since the elopement is 
only a stage convention — one of those events which 
you let pass in the theatre because they lead to inter- 
esting scenes, on the understanding that nobody is to 


298 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


be held morally responsible for them. (Otherwise, it 
may be remarked, Mrs. D’Acosta’s treatment of Cap- 
tain Crozier must be condemned as severely as her treat- 
ment of her husband.) Crozier, in all the points at 
which he can reasonably be regarded as exercising free 
will, behaves like a gentleman according to his lights; 
and when I say that Mr. Coghlan’s success was due to 
his taking the character from its own point of view, 
I mean that he so played it as to make clear, when 
Crozier finally walked out, that he was filled with the 
most complete sense of having done everything that the 
most exacting social critic could have expected of him, 
and done it handsomely and adroitly. And the effect 
left upon us was that of having made the acquaintance 
of Captain Crozier, instead of merely seeing Mr. 
Coghlan with a new suit of clothes on. 

The part of Stephen D’Acosta fitted Mr. Lewis 
Waller so closely that it was not necessary for him to 
make any great impersonative effort; and the same 
may be said of Miss Florence West, who happily ob- 
literated all memory of her struggles with the Manx- 
woman. The pleasant personal qualities with which we 
are familiar carried Mr. Waller through sympatheti- 
cally; and though there was one speech in which the 
authors evidently intended him to play much more 
forcibly — that in which Stephen D’Acosta gives his 
father-in-law a piece of his mind — I hardly blame him 
for refusing to exert himself violently for its sake, 
since it was hardly equal to, say, the exhortation which 
Moliére puts into the mouth of Don Juan’s father on 
the subject of the true gentleman. Still, the under- 
playing was a little hard on Mr. Brookfield, whose 
elaborate exit, as of a man utterly crumpled up, would 
have been more effective had Mr. Waller done the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 299 


crumpling with due energy. Mrs. Beerbohm Tree, to 
whom some malignant fairy godmother must have 
denied the gifts of empty-headed sentimentality and 
hysterical incontinence which are essential to success in 
our drama, substituting for them the fatal disqualifica- 
tions of brains, individuality, and positiveness of char- 
acter, gave an amazingly ingenious imitation of the 
conventional Froufrou. Only once, through the genius 
of another member of the company, was she carried 
into a sincere bit of acting. ‘This talented colleague 
was a Mr. Stewart Dawson, an actor not yet in his 
teens, but with a pleasant voice, a blarneying smile, a 
simplicity of manner all irresistible. ‘The house took 
to him as if he were its own son; and so apparently 
did Mrs. Tree. I can only say that if Mr. Dawson’s 
fascination increases with his years, it is a grave ques- 
tion whether he ought to be allowed to grow up. Mrs. 
Tree, by the way, was announced as appearing “ by 
arrangement,” as if all the rest had dropped in by 
accident. What has had to be arranged is evidently 
either Mrs. Tree’s objection to appear “ by kind per- 
mission of Mr. Tree,” or Mr. Tree’s objection to 
give the kind permission. This observation is, of 
course, not serious; but I make it for the sake of 
calling attention to the absurdity, and indeed the 
indelicacy, of the “ kind permission ” formula by which 
managers insist on publicly asserting proprietary rights 
in artists who are under engagement to them. Imagine 
one of the Reviews announcing an article on the theatre 
by Mr. Clement Scott as “ by kind permission of the 
Editor of the ‘ Daily Telegraph’” ! Why should the 
manager of the theatre have worse manners than an 
editor? : 
Of the other characters, Lord Bletchley, half con- 


300 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


vention, half burlesque, is cleverly played by Mr. Brook- 
field. He should be warned, however, that his tricky 
diction occasionally prevents his sentences from being 
quite clearly caught. The Rev. Cosmo Pretious, all 
burlesque, and unenlightened burlesque at that, is very 
well played by Mr. Henry Kemble, whose sense of char- 
acter and artistic feeling have been too much wasted 
on plays with no characters in them. Agatha Pretious, 
also a burlesque figure, is a part quite unworthy of 
Miss Maude Millett. She has evidently been cast for 
it merely to drag another popular name into the bill. 

I have forgotten to mention, by the way, that “A 
Woman’s Reason” is a play with a purpose — the 
same purpose as that of “ Daniel Deronda.” All the 
Jews in it are heroes and heroines, and all the Chris- 
tians the meanest and feeblest wretches conceivable. 
Serve them right! 


PLAYS OF THE WEEK 


The Prisoner of Zenda: a romantic play in a prologue 
and four acts. Adapted from Anthony Hope’s story 
by Edward Rose. St. James’s Theatre, 7 January, 
1896. 

The Sign of the Cross: in four acts. By Wilson Bar- 
rett. Lyric Theatre, 4 January, 1896. 


was an amusing attempt to get a Scott-Dumas 
romance out of modern life. To take the 
nineteenth-century hero, give him a sword and a horse, 
a forest to gallop through and a castle to besiege, 


M: ANTHONY HOPE?’S “ Prisoner of Zenda ” 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 301 


enemies to pursue him, persons with wrists of steel to 
fence with, princesses to love and rescue, and all the 
other luxuries of a D’Artagnan, was a laudable enter- 
prise, in pursuit of which Mr. Hope went to the shores 
of the Baltic, and carved an imaginary State of Ruri- 
tania out of Mecklenburg. He was so far successful 
that the book made pleasant reading up to within a 
few chapters of the end. Then the reader’s heavily 
taxed powers of make-believe gave out. At least, that 
was my experience. At about the point where Ras- 
sendyl began his swimming exploits in the moat, I 
found it impossible any longer to forget that the whole 
book was a great piece of nonsense. Mere incident in 
a romance is not interesting unless you believe in the 
reality of the people to whom the incidents occur. 
Scott and Dumas could create real men and women for 
you: their merest supernumeraries, from the inn- 
keepers whom the Musketeers cheat to Higg the son of 
Snell, are more solid acquaintances than Mr. Hope’s 
heroes. Rassendyl is really nothing but a pasteboard 
pattern of manly attitudes to be struck in the act of 
doing one’s duty under difficult circumstances, a figure 
motived by conventionalities, without individual will, 
and therefore without reality or humanity. If it were 
not for Mr. Hope’s light touch and sense of fun, the 
whole book would be as dull and mechanical a rigmarole 
of adventure as its last chapters. As it is, all the 
attempts to indicate the serious worth and rarity of 
the qualities which Rassendyl carries so lightly, bore 
and jar us by threatening to awake our common sense, 
which, if aroused, must immediately put a summary 
stop to the somewhat silly Ruritanian gambols of our 
imagination. 

This weakness of characterization is perpetuated in 


302 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the play with some added disadvantages. The liveliest 
character in the book is Captain Hentzau, because, 
though he is not a very possible scoundrel, at least his 
conduct is wilful, and not obviously made to order for 
the British Wholesale Association for the Supply of 
Moral Fiction. On the stage he acquires possibility, 
but loses fascination. The flimsiness of Rassendyl is 
terribly exposed by the footlights. The notion that in 
England every futile, harum-scarum, good-naturedly 
selfish Johnny is a hero who only needs opportunity to 
display the noblest qualities, and have his hand kissed 
by veterans and high-souled ladies, is as popular, be- 
cause as widely flattering, as that other idea that our 
yachts constitute a reserve fleet, and our shopmen a 
reserve army which in case of invasion would rush from 
behind the counter to hurl the foe back in confusion 
from the soil of England. It is, of course, pleasant 
to think that valuable qualities are dirt cheap in our 
own country; but I, unluckily, am constitutionally 
sceptical as to the heroism of people who never do 
anything heroic. However disgusting this cynicism of 
mine may appear, I noticed that Rassendyl pleased the 
audience at the St. James’s in all the passages where 
he appears as a reckless young gentleman imperson- 
ating the King of Ruritania for a lark, and rubbed it 
the wrong way in all his attempts to pose as a king of 
men. The only qualities needed for his exploit are 
impudence and the not very uncommon sort of dare- 
devilry that induces young men to risk breaking their 
necks at bodily exercises for the mere excitement of the 
thing. The real author and hero of it is Colonel 
Sapt, who risks his life as much as Rassendyl, besides 
taking his chance of the English stranger breaking 
down or backing out. All the anxiety is his, as well 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 38038 


as all the serious purpose and contrivance. When he 
addresses the sham king as “ You damned young fool!” 
for exposing himself idly to an unnecessary risk of dis- 
covery, the audience is sympathetic and satisfied. 
When he kneels down and kisses Rassendyl’s hand in 
homage to the innate princeliness which that gentleman 
has in no wise displayed, it is impossible not to feel 
revolted. And there you have the false note of the 
play. 

Perhaps the most serious consequence of this mistake 
is the Prologue. Mr. Rose knows far too much about 
the theatre to suppose that the resemblance of Rassen- 
dyl to the King of Ruritania needed any explanation. 
An audience will always accept a resemblance with 
eagerness as a freak of nature. What Mr. Rose wanted 
to do was to place Rassendyl under a moral obligation 
to risk his life for the red Elphberg because the red 
Elphberg’s grandfather sacrificed his life for Rassen- 
dyl’s grandmother. Now, I submit not only that the 
motive appeals to that bogus-kingly side of Rassendyl’s 
character which had better have been left out, but that 
even so its compulsion is ridiculously unconvincing. If 
a gentleman were to ask me to lend him half-a-crown on 
the strength of a relationship based on the following 
circumstances: to wit, that his grandfather had se- 
duced my grandmother; fought a duel with my grand- 
mother’s husband, in the course of which he had been 
run through during a moment of inattention caused 
by the entry of the lady; declared with his last breath 
that he had died for her; and finally walked out of the 
house in his bloodstained shirt in apparently robust 
health, I should refer that gentleman to the Charity 
Organization Society. 

Besides, Mr. Rose has written the Prologue in the 


304 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


spirit of the nineteenth-century fancier of the eigh- 
teenth century rather than in that of the eighteenth 
century itself. It is a pomandering sort of Prologue, 
thrown in, not by dramatic necessity, but for the sake 
of hoops and patches, snuff-boxes and silk coats — 
above all, a duel by candlelight, without which no 
eighteenth-century drama would be complete. Mr. 
Rose has often written pleasantly about these and other 
more remote and lavendery antiquities; but in giving 
way to them on the stage he has been beset by the 
temptation to lay the scene out not only for obsolete 
dresses and incidents, but for obsolete acting, and even 
obsolete drama. I should not be surprised to learn that 
he had pleaded hard with Mr. Alexander to have a door 
knocked through the proscenium in order that Miss 
Mabel Hackney might enter through it with two black 
pages carrying her train, as the stage custom was in 
those days. The Prologue, in short, exhibits Mr. Rose 
as the man of sentimental fancies and antiquarian learn- 
ing rather than as the playwright. It will be useful 
as a curtain-raiser; but it is not essential to the com- 
prehension or enjoyment of the play. 

The play itself, as far as the novel will let it, brings 
into action Mr. Rose’s best qualities as a dramatist: 
his humor, his intelligence in the more generous issues 
of human feeling, and his insight, which is engagingly 
disabled — especially in the case of his feminine char- 
acters — by a certain shy anxiety to apologize to the 
lady for the intrusion, and present her with a favorable 
construction for what he has discovered. It is a thou- 
sand pities that the novel contained no figures suffi- 
ciently rounded and solid to make the drama really live. 
Still, unsubstantial as they are, they are superficially 
natural; and the play hops genially and adventurously 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 305 


along to the final speeches of Flavia and Rassendyl, 
which make a very pretty ending. A strong ending 
could only have been achieved by throwing the novel 
over, and changing the drunken imbecile of a king into 
an able but unlovable man, as whose consort Flavia 
might reasonably feel that her high destiny (rather a 
sentimental fancy, by the way, that high destiny!) 
would be better fulfilled than with the lovable but 
feather-brained Rassendyl. 

The performance is a curiously haphazard one, con- 
sidering its costliness and elaboration. Though the 
prevalent style of play is in the usual quiet St. James 
key, some of the characters rush on the stage super- 
charged with dramatic excitement, and momentarily 
upset all congruity of style. Mr. Cautley or Mr. 
Alexander will certainly either kill or be killed some 
night, unless the sabre fight at the end is more care- 
fully preconcerted than it was on the first night. What 
is called the coronation scene — meaning the scene in 
which Rassendyl goes off the stage to be crowned and 
comes back when the ceremony is over — seems a very 
quict little drawing-room-party business to a musical 
critic nursed on “ Le Prophéte”’ and the Wagnerian 
music drama; but it is enjoyable in its unsensational 
way. The dresses are recklessly expensive and not un- 
handsome. If I had never been taught to use my 
eyes as a critic of pictures, I might, perhaps, have 
been satisfied with the sunset scene in the forest of 
Zenda: as it was, the hopeless absurdity of the fore- 
ground light where Mr. Alexander lay at the foot of 
the tree, set me speculating as to when some serious 
attempt will be made to produce any of the subtler 
effects of open air on the stage. The acting was mostly 
very easy. Mr. Vernon, as Colonel Sapt, had the best 


306 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


part — indeed, in a sense the only part — and he left 
all the rest far behind init. Mr. Alexander was capital 
in the comedy passages, and delivered his speeches in 
the Jast scene finely, but was bad in the drunken epi- 
sode, which he played like a seasoned tcetotaller. The 
rest of his part, or rather parts, was the wrong side 
of Rassendyl, which nothing could make really effective. 
Mr. Waring did what was possible to give an air of 
substance to the nullity called Duke Michael; and Mr. 
Lawrence Cautley had not the material in his lines for 
producing the dashingly diabolical effect of the Hentzau 
of the novel. The truth is that half the company are 
doing nothing but “ supering,” although they are of 
course neither lineless nor nameless. Miss Millard has 
apparently taken the most heroic measures to trans- 
form herself into a true red Elphberg. She played 
with a touch of passion in the later scenes; but she 
was a little flat in the second act through her deficiency 
in comedy, her sense of humor resolutely refusing to ex- 
press itself artistically. Miss Olga Brandon had noth- 
ing to do but embody the description of the Mayor’s 
wife as a pretty woman; but though the part is noth- 
ing, Miss Brandon certainly got the last inch out of 
it, and something over, making more of her curtsey 
than a good many actresses make of a speech. Miss 
Lily Hanbury was fairly successful in grappling with 
Antoinette de Mauban; and Miss Mabel Hackney, not 
as yet a very finished executant, conceived her part in 
the Prologue excellently. 

Mr. Wilson Barrett has given me such unbounded 
delight by his feat of persuading the London critics 
that several of the most characteristic passages in his 
“Sign of the Cross” are quotations from the Bible 
that I have nothing but praise for him. Sterne’s “ tem- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 307 


pering the wind to the shorn lamb ” need never again be 
quoted as the champion instance of scripturization. 
It is true that Mr. Wilson Barrett, following the uni- 
versal law of art development, has founded his Sermon 
on the Mount to some extent on the original one; but 
I can assure the public that the text of “‘ The Sign of 
the Cross ” is essentially original; and if Mr. Wilson 
Barrett writes to the papers to assure us, in the usual 
terms, that so far from his having taken his play from 
the Bible, he has never even read that volume, I am 
quite prepared to believe him. His literary style is 
altogether different. The play is a monument of sacred 
and profane history. The influence of Ibsen is appar- 
ent throughout, the Norwegian keynote being struck 
by Mr. Barrett himself in the words: “ How many 
crimes are committed under the cloak of duty!”? With 
scathing, searching irony, and with resolute courage 
in the face of the prejudiced British public, he has 
drawn a terrible contrast between the Romans (“ Pa- 
gans, I regret to say,” as Mr. Pecksmiff remarked of 
the sirens), with their straightforward sensuality, and 
the strange, perverted voluptuousness of the Christians, 
with their shuddering exaltations of longing for the 
whip, the rack, the stake, and the lions. The whole 
drama lies in the spectacle of the hardy Roman pre- 
fect, a robust soldier and able general, gradually fall- 
ing under the spell of a pale Christian girl, white and 
worn with spiritual ecstasy, and beautiful as Mary 
Anderson. As she gradually throws upon him the 
fascination of suffermg and martyrdom, he loses his 
taste for wine; the courtesans at his orgies disgust 
him; heavenly visions obsess him; undreamt-of rap- 
tures of sacrifice, agony, and escape from the world 
to indescribable holiness and bliss tempt him; and 


308 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


finally he is seen, calm and noble, but stark mad, fol- 
lowing the girl to her frightfully voluptuous death. 
It is a tremendous moral lesson; and though I am 
pagan enough to most intensely dislike the flogging 
and racking and screaming on the stage (I really am 
such a bloodless creature that I take no delight in 
torture), yet no doubt it helps to drive the irony of 
the theme home. 

On the intellectual side, Christianity hardly receives 
justice from Mr. Wilson Barrett. “ Christianity is not 
in itself a crime,” says Marcus to Nero. ‘“* Marcus 
argues strongly, Cesar,” 1s Poppea’s comment. I must 
say I think Poppea is rather too easily satisfied. But, 
after all, we do not want to hear the case argued at 
this time of day. What we enjoy is being so familiarly 
in Rome that it sounds quite natural when such direc- 
tions to wayfarers as “ Fourth on the right from the 
statue of Hercules ” are given by the lictors. We come 
into the presence of Nero, and hear him ordering a set 
of living torches for that evening, and boasting of what 
an artist he is. We see the Roman ladies at home 
sticking pins into their slaves, and the Roman diner- 
out exhausted by his second vomit. We hear the thun- 
der of the chariot race, and see the gladiator enter the 
arena. And we have, as aforesaid, whips and racks, 
chains and dungeons, uplifted crosses and Christian 
martyrs, not to mention plenty of music well handled 
by Mr. Edward Jones, with hymns for the Christians, 
waltzes for the Romans, and Sullivan’s ** Thou ’rt pass- 
ing hence, my brother,” and Gounod’s “ Nazareth ” on 
the cornet and sackbut between the acts. 

The mounting is handsome, and the stage manage- 
ment good and unselfish, all the parts being played with 
quite extraordinary spirit, and in no way sacrificed to 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 309 


the actor-manager’s. I have never seen better work got 
out of a company. Mr. Wilson Barrett has honestly 
sunk the actor in the author, and done his best for 
the play, instead of for himself personally. Indeed, the 
one conspicuous and laughable oversight is in Mr. Bar- 
rett’s own make-up. Instead of wearing the proper 
cropped Roman wig, he wears his own hair in his old 
familiar feminine fashion, with the result that when he 
first steps on the stage he presents such an amazing 
resemblance to Miss Victor that, instead of applauding 
him, I stared with a shocked conviction that I had that 
lady before me in the costume of a Roman warrior. 
The effect is amusing; but it spoils an otherwise manly 
picture. 


MICHAEL AND HIS LOST ANGEL 


Michael and his Lost Angel: a new and original play 
of modern English life. In five acts. By Henry Ar- 
thur Jones. Lyceum Theatre, 15 January, 1896. 


NE of the great comforts of criticizing the work 
of Mr. Henry Arthur Jones is that the critic 
can go straight to the subject-matter without 

troubling about the dramatic construction. In the 
born writer the style is the man; and with the born 
dramatist the play is the subject. Mr. Jones’s plays 
grow: they are not cut out of bits of paper and stuck 
together. Mr. Grundy or Sardou, at their respective 
worsts, perform such feats of carpentry in constructing 
show-cases for some trumpery little situation, that the 
critics exhaust all their space in raptures over the 


310 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


mechanical skill displayed. But Mr. Jones’s technical 
skill 1s taken as a matter of course. Nobody ever 
dreams of complimenting him about it: we proceed 
direct to abusing his ideas without delay. This is 
quite right and natural. If you invent a mechanical 
rabbit, wind it up, and set it running round the room 
for me, I shall be hugely entertained, no matter how 
monstrously unsuccessful it may be as a representation 
of nature; but if you produce a real rabbit which be- 
gins running about without being wound up at all, I 
simply say “‘ Why should n’t it?” and take down my 
gun. Similarly, on Mr. Jones producing a live play, 
which starts into perfectly natural action on the rising 
of the curtain without being wound up during an act 
or two of exposition, I say “ Why should n’t it? ” and, 
as aforesaid, take down my gun. 

When I respond to the appeal of Mr. Jones’s art by 
throwing myself sympathetically into his characteristic 
attitude of mind, I am conscious of no shortcoming in 
‘Michael and his Lost Angel.” It then seems to me 
to be a genuinely sincere and moving play, feelingly 
imagined, written with knowledge as to the man and 
insight as to the woman by an author equipped not 
only with the experience of an adept playwright, and 
a kindly and humorous observer’s sense of contempo- 
rary manners, but with that knowledge of spiritual his- 
tory in which Mr. Jones’s nearest competitors seem so 
stupendously deficient. Its art is in vital contact with 
the most passionate religious movement of its century, 
as fully quickened art always has been. On comparing 
it in this relation with the ordinary personal sentiment 
of Mr. Grundy, and with those grotesque flounderings 
after some sort of respectably pious foothold which 
have led Mr. Pinero to his rescue of the burning Bible 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 311 


from Mrs. Ebbsmith’s stove, and his redemption of 
Mrs. Fraser by the social patronage of the Bishop’s 
wife, I unhesitatingly class Mr. Jones as first, and emi- 
nently first, among the surviving fittest of his own 
generation of playwrights. 

But when, instead of throwing myself sympatheti- 
cally into Mr. Jones’s attitude, I remain obstinately in 
my own, I find myself altogether unable to offer to 
*¢ Michael ” that final degree of complete sympathy and 
approval which is implied in the conviction that I would 
have written the play that way myself if I could. As 
to the first two acts, I ask nothing better; but at the 
beginning of the third comes the parting of our ways; 
and I can point out the exact place where the roads 
fork. In the first act Michael, a clergyman, compels 
a girl who has committed what he believes to be a deadly 
sin to confess it publicly in church. In the second act 
he commits that sin himself. At the beginning of the 
third he meets the lady who has been his accomplice; 
and the following words pass between them: 


Audrie. — You're sorry? 
Michael.— No. And you? 
Audrie. — No. 


Now, after this, what does the clergyman do? With- 
out giving another thought to that all-significant fact 
that he is not sorry —that at the very point where, 
if his code and creed were valid, his conscience would 
be aching with remorse, he is not only impenitent, but 
positively glad, he proceeds to act as if he really were 
penitent, and not only puts on a hair shirt, but actually 
makes a confession to his congregation in the false 
character of a contrite sinner, and goes out from among 
them with bowed head to exile and disgrace, only wait- 


312 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ing in the neighborhood until the church 1s empty to 
steal back and privily contradict his pious imposture 
by picking up and hiding a flower which the woman 
has thrown on the steps of the altar. This is perfectly 
true to nature: men do every day, with a frightful 
fatalism, abjectly accept for themselves as well as 
others all the consequences of theories as to what they 
ought to feel and ought to believe, although they not 
only do not so feel or believe, but often feel and be- 
lieve the very reverse, and find themselves forced to 
act on their real feeling and belief in supreme moments 
which they are willing with a tragically ridiculous self- 
abnegation to expiate afterwards even with their lives. 

Here you have the disqualification of “ Michael and 
his Lost Angel” for full tragic honors. It is a play 
without a hero. Let me rewrite the last three acts, and 
you shall have your Reverend Michael embracing the 
answer of his own soul, thundering it from the steps 
of his altar, and marching out through his shocked and 
shamed parishioners, with colors flying and head erect 
and unashamed, to the freedom of faith in his own real 
conscience. Whether he is right or wrong is nothing 
to me as a dramatist: he must follow his star, right or 
wrong, if he is to be a hero. In “ Hamlet ” one cannot 
approve unreservedly of the views of Fortinbras; but, 
generations of foolish actor-managers to the contrary 
notwithstanding, what true Shakespearean ever thinks 
of “ Hamlet ” without seeing Fortinbras, in his winged 
helmet, swoop down at the end, and take, by the divine 
right of a born “ captain of his soul,” the crown that 
slips through the dead fingers of the philosopher who 
went, at the bidding of his father’s ghost, in search of 
a revenge which he did not feel and a throne which he 
did not want? Fortinbras can, of course, never be any- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 313 


thing more than an Adelphi hero, because his bellicose 
instincts and imperial ambitions are comfortably vul- 
gar; but both the Adelphi hero and the tragic hero 
have fundamentally the same heroic qualification — 
fearless pursuit of their own ends and championship 
of their own faiths contra mundum. 

Michael fails to satisfy this condition in an emer- 
gency where a heroic self-realization alone could save 
him from destruction; and if this failure were the sub- 
ject of Mr. Jones’s last three acts, then the play with- 
out a hero might be as tragic as “ Rosmersholm.” But 
Mr. Jones does not set Michael’s situation in that hght: 
he shares his fatalism, accepting his remorse, confes- 
sion, and disgrace as inevitable, with a monastery for 
the man and death for the woman as the only possible 
stage ending— surely not so much an ending as a 
slopping up of the remains of the two poor creatures. 
The last act is only saved from being a sorry business 
by the man’s plucking a sort of courage out of aban- 
donment, and by a humorous piteousness in the dying 
woman, who, whilst submitting, out of sheer feebleness 
of character, to Michael’s attitude, is apologetically 
conscious of having no sincere conviction of sin. When 
the priest offers his services, she replies, “‘ No, thanks, 
I’ve been dreadfully wicked — does n’t much matter, 
eh? Can’t help it now. Haven’t strength to feel 
sorry. So sorry I can’t feel sorry.” This gives a 
pleasant quaintness to the hackneyed pathos of a stage 
death; but it does not obliterate the fact that Audrie 
is dying of nothing but the need for making the audi- 
ence cry, and that she is a deplorable disappointment 
considering her promise of force and originality in the 
first two acts. A play without a hero may still be 
heroic if it has a heroine; and had Mr. Jones so laid 


314 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


out his play as to pose the question, “‘ What will this 
woman do when she discovers that the saint of Cleve- 
heddon is nothing but a hysterical coward, whose re- 
ligion is a morbid perversion of his sympathetic in- 
stincts instead of the noblest development of them? ” 
the answer of a capable woman to such a question 
might have given the last three acts the attraction of 
strength and hope, instead of their present appeal ad 
misericordiam of sentimental despair and irrelevant 
bodily disease. But Audrie, though she has a certain 
salt of wit in her, is as incapable of taking her fate 
into her own hands as Michael; and the two, hypno- 
tized by public opinion, let themselves be driven ab- 
jectly, she to the shambles and he to the dustbin, with- 
out a redeeming struggle. 

It is clear, I think, that if the public were of my way 
of thinking, the play, good as it is of its kind, would 
fail; for the public is not sympathetic enough to throw 
itself into Mr. Jones’s attitude, and enjoy the play 
from his point of view, unless it can do so without 
going out of its own way. And I cannot help thinking 
that the public dislike a man of Michacl’s stamp. After 
all, stupid as we are, we are not Asiatics. The most 
pig-headed Englishman has a much stronger objection 
to be crushed or killed by institutions and conventions, 
however sacred or even respectable, than a Russian 
peasant or a Chinaman. If he commits a sin, he either 
tells a ie and sticks to it, or else demands “ a broaden- 
ing of thought ” which will bring his sin within the 
limits of the allowable. To expiation, if it can possibly 
be avoided, he has a wholesome and energetic objection. 
He is an individualist, not a fatalist: with all his 
apparent conventionality there is no getting over the 
fact that institutions — moral, political, artistic, and 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 315 


ecclesiastical — which in more Eastern lands have 
paralyzed whole races, making each century a mere 
stereotype of the one before, are mere footballs for the 
centuries in England. It is an instinct with me per- 
sonally to attack every idea which has been full grown 
for ten years, especially if it claims to be the foundation 
of all human society. I am prepared to back human 
society against any idea, positive or negative, that can 
be brought into the field against it. In this — except 
as to my definite intellectual consciousness of it — I 
am, I believe, a much more typical and popular person 
in England than the conventional man; and I believe 
that when we begin to produce a genuine national 
drama, this apparently anarchic force, the mother of 
higher law and humaner order, will underlie it, and 
that the public will lose all patience with the conven- 
tional collapses which serve for last acts to the serious 
dramas of to-day. Depend upon it, the miserable doc- 
trine that life is a mess, and that there is no way out 
of it, will never nerve any man to write a truly heroic 
play west of the Caucasus. I do not for a moment 
suspect Mr. Jones of really holding that doctrine him- 
self. He has written “ Michael” as a realist on the 
unheroic plane, simply taking his contemporaries as 
he finds them on that plane. 

Perhaps it is unfair to Mr. Jones to substitute to 
this extent a discussion of the philosophy of his play 
for a criticism of its merits on its own ground. But 
the performance at the Lyceum has taken all the heart 
out of my hopes of gaining general assent to my high 
estimate of “ Michael and his Lost Angel.” ‘The public 
sees the play as it is acted, not as it ought to be acted. 
The sooner Mr. Jones publishes it the better for its 
reputation. There never was a play more skilfully 


316 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


designed to fit the chief actors than this was for Mr. 
Forbes Robertson and Mrs. Patrick Campbell. But 
though Mr. Jones was able to write for Mrs. Campbell 
such a part as she is not likely to get the refusal of 
soon again, he had to depend on Mrs. Campbell’s own 
artistic judgment to enable her to perceive the value 
of the chance. ‘The judgment was apparently not 
forthcoming: at all events, Mrs. Patrick Campbell van- 
ished from the bills as the day of battle drew nigh. 
In such an emergency your London manager has only 
one idea —- send for Miss Marion Terry. Miss Marion 
Terry was accordingly sent for — sent for to play the 
bad angel; to be perverse, subtly malign, infernally 
beautiful; to sell her soul and her lover’s to the Devil, 
and bite her arm through as a seal to the bargain; 
to do everything that is neither in her nature, nor 
within the scope of her utmost skill in dissimulation. 
The result was a touching little sham, very charming 
in the first act, where her entry rescued the play just 
as it was staggering under the weight of some very bad 
acting in the opening scene; and very affecting at the 
end, where she died considerately and prettily, as only 
an inveterately amiable woman could. But not for the 
most infinitesimal fraction of a second was she Audrie 
Lesden; and five acts of “ Michael and his Lost Angel ” 
without Audrie Lesden were not what the author in- 
tended. As to Mr. Forbes Robertson, Mr. Jones had 
undertaken to make the actor’s outside effeetive if he 
in return would look after the inside of the Reverend 
Michael. Mr. Jones kept to his bargain: Mr. Forbes 
Robertson was unable to fulfil his. He made the mis- 
take — common in an irreligious age — of conceiving 
a religious man as a lugubrious one. All the sympathy 
in the first act depended on his making it clear that 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 317 


the force that swept Rose Gibbard to the altar to con- 
fess was the priest’s rapturous faith in the gladness 
of an open and contrite heart, natural to a man made 
over-sanguine by spiritual joy. Mr. Forbes Robertson 
threw away all this sympathy, and set the audience 
against him and against the play from the outset by 
adopting the solemn, joyless, professional manner and 
the preachy utterance of the Low-Church apostle of 
mortification and wrath, It is quite impossible to ex- 
aggerate the disastrous effect of this initial mistake 
on the performance. The more saintly Mr. Robertson 
looked, the slower, gloomier, more depressingly monoto- 
nous he became, until at last, in spite of Miss Terry’s 
spoonfuls of sweet syrup, I half expected to see the 
infuriated author rush on the stage and treat us to a 
realistic tableau of the stoning of St. Stephen. What 
is the use of the dramatist harmonizing the old Scarlet- 
Letter theme in the new Puseyite mode if the actor is 
to transpose it back again into the old Calvinistic 
minor key? 

As to the rest, their woodenness is not to be de- 
scribed, though woodenness is hardly the right word 
for Mr. Mackintosh, in whose performance, however, 
I could discover neither grace nor verisimilitude. Miss 
Brooke need not be included in this wholesale condemna- 
tion; but her part was too small to make any difference 
to the general effect. The melancholy truth of the 
matter is that the English stage got a good play, and 
was completely and ignominiously beaten by it. Mr. 
Jones has got beyond the penny novelette conventions 
which are actable in our theatre. I fear there is no 
future for him except as a dramatic critic. 

The play is well mounted, though the church scene 
is an appalling example of the worst sort of German 


318 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


“restoration.” And it has the inevitable defect of all 
stage churches: the voices will not echo nor the foot- 
steps ring through its canvas nave and aisles. Mr. 
Forbes Robertson has been specially generous in the 
matter of the band. Mr. Armbruster was able to give 
between the acts a genuine orchestral performance of 
the slow movement from Raff’s ‘Im Walde” Sym- 
phony, and as much of the andante of Mendelssohn’s 
Italian Symphony as there was time for. 


CHURCH AND STAGE 


25 January, 1896. 


LITTLE squall of controversy has been raised 
A by the church scene in “ Michael and his Lost 

Angel” at the Lyceum. It is contended by 
gentlemen who get their living by going to the theatre 
and reporting or criticizing performances there, that 
Church ritual, and indeed anything of a sacred char- 
acter, is out of place on the stage, and its dramatic 
representation a breach of good taste and an offence 
against public decency. Let us see exactly what this 
means. 

Of all the vile places on earth that are not absolutely 
contrary to law, the vilest is a convict prison. The 
vilest thing in the prison is the gallows; and the vilest 
thing done there is an execution. Yet the prison has 
its chaplain; and his prayers are an indispensable part 
of the disgusting business of hanging a man. The most 
heathenish and wasteful, not to say bestial civic ccle- 
bration now tolerated is a City dinner. Men go there 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 319 


with the intention of eating too much and drinking too 
much; and many of them exceed their intention. But 
the proceedings always commence with the ritual called 
*““ grace before meat.” For wrath and violence, terror 
and ferocity, on a scale of the most frightful magni- 
tude, nothing can compare with a battle, especially 
when the victims are poor men tempted by a shilling 
a day to fight for the glorification of bloodthirsty 
fools and cowards who sit at home at ease and gloat 
over sensational “ special correspondence.” Yet no 
victory is complete without the ‘Te Deum ” by which 
Christian combatants assume that their God is an ac- 
complice in their crime, and praise Him for it. But, 
if you please, there is one lawful place worse than the 
gallows and the battlefields, one tolerated pursuit more 
filthy than gluttony and damnable than wholesale mur- 
der. That place is the theatre; that pursuit, play- 
going. We may drag the symbols of our religion 
through seas of blood, waste, riot and rapine, if only 
we spare it the final outrage of mentioning it on the 
stage of the Lyceum. If I am to accept this as good 
sense —if actors are infamous wretches prostituting 
themselves to the desire of the audience to indulge 
a detestable vice, then pray what am I, the critic, who 
sell myself to advertise such abomination by writing 
seductive descriptions and eulogies of the plays with 
which I am especially pleased? And what are those 
still more abandoned colleagues of mine who lard the 
managers with flatteries which even Mr. Wilson Bar- 
rett’s Nero might find a trifle hyperbolical? Clearly 
we are baser than Moliére, to whom Christian burial 
was refused in France, baser than the ballet dancer 
to whom the Bishop of London refused the Sacrament 
(though this certainly occurred a few years before 


320 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the knighting of Sir Henry Irving) by as much as the 
pandar is baser than his employer. 

Let us look at the case from another point of view. 
It is said that “some things” are too sacred to be 
represented on the stage. The phrase “ some things ” 
is highly characteristic: it recalls the intelligent mem- 
ber of Parliament who supported the attempt to ex- 
clude the late Charles Bradlaugh from the House of 
Commons on the ground that “ a man ought to believe 
in somcthing or another.” But since it is just as well 
not to be frivolously vague in speaking of sacred things, 
let us replace “ some things ” by the mysteries of re- 
ligion, which is what the objectors would mean if, on 
this subject, they were earnest enough to mean any- 
thing at all. Pray, what are the mysteries of religion? 
Are they faith, hope, love, heroism, life, creation; or 
are they pews and pulpits, prayer-books and Sunday 
bonnets, copes and stoles and dalmatics? Iéven that 
large section of the population of these islands whose 
religion is the merest idolatry of material symbols will 
not deny that the former are the realities of religion. 
Then I ask the gentlemen who think that the pews and 
prayer-books are too sacred to be represented on the 
stage, why it is that they have never protested against 
the fact that all our dramas deal with faith, hope, love, 
and the rest of the essentials? The most sacred feelings 
and the holiest names are never long out of the mouths 
of our stage heroes and heroines. In the last Adelphi 
melodrama but two the heroine recited the service for 
the dead on the stage, whilst her father danced round 
her in a frenzy, trying to make up his mind to shoot her 
before the Indians took the place by storm. The 
critics who are protesting against the procession in 


the fourth act of “ Michael and his Lost Angel” did 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 321 


not protest against that. Of course it is possible that 
they did not recognize it because Miss Millward did 
not wear a surplice during the passage, just as they 
mistook a homily of Mr. Wilson Barrett’s the other 
day for the Sermon on the Mount because the actor 
stood on a hill in a long gown and gave it out like 
a clergyman reading the lessons. But I could easily 
find instances for which that unpresentable excuse can- 
not be alleged. The real objection to Mr. Jones’s play 
is the objection to Michael’s treatment of religion as 
co-extensive with life: that is, as genuinely catholic. 
To the man who regards it as only a watertight Sunday 
compartment of social observance, such a view 1s not 
only inconvenient but positively terrifying. I am sorry 
for him; but I can assure him that the British drama 
is annexing steadily the territory on which he feels so 
uncomfortable. And whoever tries to obstruct that ad- 
vance will be inevitably ground into the mud. When 
I want to exhibit the might of criticism, I may throw 
an express train off the line; but you do not catch me 
trying to stop the imperceptibly slow march of a 
glacier. 

Yet another point of view. It is argued that a stage 
representation is only a pretence, a mockery, a sham, a 
thing made to simulate something that it is not by 
tricks of light and paint and feats of mimicry. 
Granted; but what, then, is to be said of the pictures 
in the National Gallery, in which canvas and colored 
clay are made to simulate, not only churches and 
priests, but the very persons of the Trinity themselves? 
Is a crucifix an offence against the sacredness of what 
it represents? Are religious fictions, such as “ Barab- 
bas”? and “ The Sorrows of Satan” at one extreme, 
and Goethe’s “ Faust ” at the other, to be suppressed? 


3822 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


The Cromwellian Puritans would have said “ Yes” to 
all this. Those of them who believed, like the Reverend 
Michael, that life and religion are co-extensive, were 
for destroying, not only theatres, but images, pictures, 
statues, symbols, and simulations of all kinds. Those 
who held the more convenient watertight-compartment 
theory, thus dividing hfe into the sacred and profane, 
encouraged and rejoiced in profane art, but would not 
have sacred art on any terms. They would have family 
portraits, but no pictures of saints and virgins: they 
were musicians, but would not have music in church. 
They would have sacked the National Gallery, and 
burnt its most precious treasures in Trafalgar Square; 
and they actually did enter cathedrals, smash every- 
thing they could get at that was in the nature of 
statuary, pulled the organs to pieces, and tore up the 
music-books. In short, though they were too fond of 
art to want to exterminate it, they excommunicated it. 
Are our watertight-compartment critics willing to take 
the same line? Are they prepared to excommunicate 
art altogether, or do they wish to excommunicate the 
theatre only, leaving the cathedral, the picture gal- 
lery, the hbrary, untouched? If so, this also involves 
them in the conclusion that some quite peculiar infamy 
and disgrace attaches to the theatre; and I am again 
compelled to submit that, since they have voluntarily 
chosen theatre-going as a means of livelihood, they fall 
under their own condemnation as infamous and dis- 
graceful persons, unworthy as such to lead public opin- 
ion on this or any other matter. Having no such 
unfriendly opinion of them, I had rather coax them 
to retreat from their position than see them impale 
themselves on either horn of so inhuman a dilemma. 
For what alternative is left to them, except, perhaps, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3828 


to follow the example of Sheridan Knowles by aban- 
doning their profession and spending the rest of their 
lives in warning others against it? 

The public, consisting as it does of many who do not 
go to the theatre, is in no way bound, as a critic is, 
to be loyal to it or else leave it. But the playgoing, 
art-supporting public may reasonably be called on to 
make up its mind whether religion is to be denied the 
services of art or not. Something may be learnt from 
past follies on this subject. Music, for instance, has 
always been highly privileged in the popular imagina- 
tion. No other art has ever been conceived as prac- 
tised in Heaven. Prophets may have been inspired to 
write books on earth; and St. Luke is supposed to 
have painted a portrait of the Virgin; but who ever 
dreamt of easels and ink-bottles, or typewriters, in 
Heaven? Yet what would Heaven be without its harps, 
and trumpets, and choir of angels? It was owing to 
this association of ideas that Handel met with no oppo- 
sition when he popularized the oratorio. He gave us, 
in the concert-room, Samson and Dalila, and Manoah, 
and the rest of the persons in the Bible story; and no 
one was scandalized. But when Salvini came over here, 
a hundred and thirty years later, he found that Samson 
was out of tne question in a theatre. The play-going 
public was perfectly willmg — and, indeed, highly curi- 
ous — to see him walk off with the gates of Gaza, throw 
his father across his shoulder with one hand and carry 
him away, and finally perish between the pillars under 
a shower of dummy Philistines. But the people who 
never go to the theatre might have been offended; and 
so Samson had to be reserved for a much more Puritan 
country — America. Even music itself has had to 
make absurd concessions to pietistic prudery. Bee- 


324 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


thoven composed an oratorio called “ The Mount of 
Olives’; and immediately the question arose whether 
the Handelian privilege extended to the New Testa- 
ment. After about thirty years’ consideration we made 
up our minds the wrong way, and turned “ The Mount 
of Olives ” into “ Engedi,” with David for the principal 
figure. Thirty years more, and the original work was 
performed at the Leeds Festival, with such complete 
impunity that it was evident the Engedification had 
been an act of gratuitous folly. We were kept for a 
long time out of one of the world’s great possessions, 
Bach’s St. Matthew Passion, on the same grounds. 
If it had been an acre of blue dirt, with a few handfuls 
of trumpery diamonds in it, we should have gone to war 
about it. Let nobody suppose that our ultimate eman- 
cipation from these silly restrictions was the result of 
any growth or change in public opinion on the matter. 
There was no such growth and no such change. On 
the contrary, the sort of people who were supposed to 
object to “The Mount of Olives” when it was first 
performed as a Lenten oratorio at Drury Lane in 
1814 are much more numerous at present than they 
were then. And they are just as free to stay away 
from performances they disapprove of as they were 
then. The restrictions are always the work of half 
a dozen busybodies, actuated less by cowardice than 
by a desire to make an officious display of the unde- 
sirable quality they call * good taste.” 

Goethe’s taste being even worse than that displayed 
by Mr. Henry Arthur Jones in the fourth act of 
“ Michael and his Lost Angel,” he placed the scene of 
the prologue to his best known drama, not in Cleve- 
heddon church, but in Heaven itself, with the Almighty 
conversing with Satan on easy terms, as in the Book 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 825 


of Job. Some of our dramatic critics (especially those 
who are not suspected of reading Goethe, and who see 
no difference between the literary styles of St. Matthew 
and Mr. Wilson Barrett) will be shocked at this, and 
will exult in the fact that no attempt was made, or 
could have been made, to introduce the prologue on 
the English stage when the Lyceum “ Faust ” provided 
the opportunity. But I, having graduated as a musical 
critic, can assure my colleagues that I have seen this 
prologue repeatedly on no less English a stage than 
that of Covent Garden, under no less respectable a 
manager than Sir Augustus Harris. And nothing 
could have been more English than the manner in 
which the scene was represented. ‘There was a front 
cloth with clouds painted on it. In the right-hand top 
corner (from the spectator’s point of view) there was 
a large hole irradiated with white light, and in the 
left-hand bottom corner a similar hole, glowing with 
red light. Satan appeared bodily in the red hole and 
sang his speeches. Nothing but the white glory could 
be seen through the higher rift in the clouds; and 
the speeches were sung by the chorus, as in the case of 
the words, “‘ Saul, why persecutest thou me? ” in Men- 
delssohn’s oratorio. This has occurred as often as 
Boito’s “ Mefistofele ” has been performed; and I have 
not heard up to the present that any grave social con- 
sequences have ensued, or that any person has been 
shocked, hurt, injured, demoralized, or other than edi- 
fied and delighted — except, perhaps, when the chorus 
sang flat, as choruses behind the scenes are apt to do. 

When there is anything artistic to be done in Eng- 
land, all that is necessary is to do it as a matter of 
course without saying anything about it. If you raise 
the question whether it is permissible, there will be an 


326 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


outcry against it as impossibly scandalous, especially 
if it is something that has been done over and over 
again for hundreds of years. If the proprietors of the 
French Gallery had asked the leave of the British press 
and public before they exhibited Van Uhde’s picture of 
Christ sitting in a room speaking to people in tall 
hats and frock coats, a horror-stricken prohibition 
would have been voiced by writers who would have tried 
their utmost to get a private peep at the picture. The 
proprietors of the French Gallery wisely said nothing. 
They exhibited the picture; and all the genuinely re- 
ligious visitors were greatly touched and pleased by it. 
If any sculptor were to ask public permission to ex- 
hibit a figure of a lady or gentleman with nothing on 
at Burlington House, that permission would be sternly 
refused. But the thing is done every year without per- 
mission, and nobody is any the worse. The man who 
submits a moral syllabus of a work of art to the 
public is a fool. Submit the work of art itself, and 
then the public can judge. Of course, 1f they dislike 
it they will beat it with any stick they can lay hold of. 
If the drama of ‘ Michael” had pleased the critics 
who imagined they were scandalized by the fourth act, 
Mr. Jones might have introduced not only a consecra- 
tion, but a baptism, a confirmation, a marriage, and a 
communion, as safely as the Adelphi authors introduced 
the service for the dead. 

I do not lay down the law on this subject according 
to any canon of taste or theory of permissibility. I 
take things as I find them. I have seen not only 
“ Michacl and his Lost Angel,” but “ Parsifal ” at Bay- 
reuth, and the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergau. I 
found them good, and should be glad to see them 
brought within the reach of English playgoers. I have 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3827 


also seen “‘ Gentleman Joe ’”’; and I have no doubt that 
some of my colleagues whom Mr. Jones has shocked 
would be glad to see that piece brought within the 
reach of Bavarian playgoers. And with this reminder 
that you cannot attack the freedom of the plays you 
do not like without equally endangering the freedom 
of those you like, and that it 1s better to tolerate the 
catholicly religious people who are claiming for the 
theatre its share in the common spiritual heritage than 
to put a weapon into the hands of the sectarianly re- 
ligious people who would make an end of the theatre 
altogether if they could, I leave the subject until the 
next week in which there happens to be nothing else to 
write about. 


DEAR HARP OF MY COUNTRY! 


_ The Colleen Bawn; or, the Brides of Garryowen, 
Dion Boucicault’s Great Drama (sic), in three acts. 
Princess’s Theatre, 25 January, 1896. 


water in it; and perhaps I shall live to see it 

some day with real Irishmen im it, though I doubt 
if that will heighten its popularity much. The real 
water lacks the translucent cleanliness of the original 
article, and destroys the illusion of Eily’s drowning and 
Myles na Coppaleen’s header to a quite amazing de- 
gree; but the spectacle of the two performers taking 
a call before the curtain, sopping wet, and bowing with 
a miserable enjoyment of the applause, is one which 
I shall remember with a chuckle whilst life remains. 


| HAVE lived to see “ The Colleen Bawn ” with real 


328 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


When I imply, as above, that the Irishmen in “ The 
Colleen Bawn”’ are not real Irishmen, I do not mean 
for a moment to challenge the authenticity of Mr. 
Richard Purdon, who succeeds Dion Boucicault as 
Myles. Nor do I even accuse him of demonstrating 
the undeniable fact that the worst stage Irishmen are 
often real Irishmen. What I mean is that Dion Bouci- 
eault, when he invented Myles, was not holding the 
mirror up to nature, but blarneying the British public 
precisely as the Irish car-driver, when he is “ ’cute ” 
enough, blarneys the English tourist. To an Irish- 
man who has any sort of social conscience, the concep- 
tion of Ireland as a romantic picture, in which the 
background is formed by the Lakes of Killarney by 
moonlight, and a round tower or so, whilst every male 
figure is “a broth of a bhoy,” and every female one a 
colleen in a crimson Connemara cloak, is as exasper- 
ating as the conception of Italy as a huge garden and 
art museum, inhabited by picturesque artists’ models, 
is to a sensible Italian. The Kerry peasant is no more 
a Myles na Coppaleen (his real name is Smith, or, at 
most, Ryan) than the real Wiltshire peasant is a Mark 
Tapley; and as for Eily, Dolly Varden as a typical 
English tradesman’s daughter is a masterpiece of real- 
ism in comparison. The occupation of the Irish peasant 
is mainly agricultural; and I advise the reader to make 
it a fixed rule never to allow himself to believe in the 
alleged Arcadian virtues of the half-starved drudges 
who are sacrificed to the degrading, brutalizing, and, 
as far as I can ascertain, entirely unnecessary pursuit 
of unscientific farming. The virtues of the Irish peas- 
ant are the intense melancholy, the surliness of manner, 
the incapacity for happiness and self-respect that are 
the tokens of his natural unfitness for a life of wretch- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3829 


edness. His vices are the arts by which he accommo- 
dates himself to his slavery — the flattery on his lips 
which hides the curse in his heart; his pleasant readi- 
ness to settle disputes by “leaving it all to your 
honor,” in order to make something out of your gener- 
osity in addition to exacting the utmost of his legal 
due from you; his instinctive perception that by pleas- 
ing you he can make you serve him; his mendacity and 
mendicity; his love of a stolen advantage; the super- 
stitious fear of his priest and his Church which does 
not prevent him from trying to cheat both in the tem- 
poral transactions between them; and the parasitism 
which makes him, in domestic service, that occasionally 
convenient but on the whole demoralizing human barna- 
cle, the irremovable old retainer of the family. Of all 
the tricks which the Irish nation have played on the 
slow-witted Saxon, the most outrageous is the palming 
off on him of the imaginary Irishman of romance. The 
worst of it is, that when a spurious type gets into 
literature, it strikes the imaginations of boys and girls. 
They form themselves by playing up to it; and thus 
the unsubstantial fancies of the novelists and music- 
hall song-writers of one generation are apt to become 
the unpleasant and mischievous realities of the next. 
The obsoletely patriotic Englishman of to-day is a 
most pestilent invention of this sort; and ever since 
the formation of the German Empire, the German has 
been dramatized with such success that even the Em- 
peror spends most of his time in working up the char- 
acter. Ireland, always foremost in the drama, may 
claim the credit of having invented the Irishman out of 
nothing — invented him without the stimulus of empire, 
national independence, knowledge of her own history, 
united population, common religion, or two penn’orth 


330 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


of prestige of any sort, her very rebellions having only 
attained eminence by giving the national genius for 
treachery an opportunity of surpassing all recorded 
achievements in that important department of revolu- 
tionary politics. Fortunately the same talent that 
enabled Ireland to lead the way in inventing and dram- 
atizing national types now keeps her to the front in 
the more salutary work of picking them to pieces, a 
process which appeals to her barbarous humor on the 
one hand, and on the other to her keen common sense 
and intelligent appreciation of reality. Of course it 
sacrifices the advantages which the imposture secured, 
as I have good reason to feel; for nobody can be 
better aware than I am of the convenience to an Irish- 
man in England of being able, by an ocasional cunning 
flourish of his nationality, to secure all the privileges 
of a harmless lunatic without forfeiting the position of 
a responsible member of society. But there is a point 
at which shams become so deadly tiresome that they 
produce ungovernable nausea, and are rejected at all 
risks. There are signs that Ireland, never very toler- 
ant of the stage Irishman within her own coasts, 1s 
disaffected to him even in the literature by which her 
scribes habitually impose on England and America. 
Quite lately a London publisher, Mr. Arnold, sent me 
a novel with the suggestive title of ‘‘ Misther O’Ryan,” 
who turned out to be the traditional blend of Myles 
na Coppaleen, Robert Emmett, Daniel O’Connell, 
Thomas Moore, Fin McCoul, and Brian Boru, as 
compounded and impersonated by a vulgar rascal — 
an Irish Silas Wegg — whose blackguardism and irre- 
mediable worthlessness the writer, evidently that very 
rare literary bird, an Irish author living im Ireland, 
had sketched with a vengeful zest that was highly re- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 331 


freshing and, I should say, very wholesome just at 
present. Take any of the pictures Balzac or Maupas- 
sant have painted for us of the spiritual squalor of the 
routine of poor middle-class life, in which the educa- 
tion, the income, the culture of the family are three- 
quarters abject pretence; and you will not find it more 
_ depressing and even appalling than those which break 
through the usually imaginative atmosphere of Mr. 
T. P. O’Connor’s reviews when the book in hand hap- 
pens to touch Irish life. I showed my own appreciation 
of my native land in the usual Irish way -by getting 
out of it as soon as I possibly could; and I cannot 
say that I have the smallest intention of settling there 
again as long as the superior attractions of St. Helena 
(not to mention London) are equally available; but 
since I cannot disguise from myself the helpless de- 
pendence of the British Empire on us for vital elements 
of talent and character (without us the English race 
would simply die of respectability within two genera- 
tions), I am quite ready to help the saving work of 
reducing the sham Ireland of romance to a heap of 
unsightly ruins. When this is done, my countrymen 
can consider the relative merits of building something 
real in the old country, or taking a hint from that other 
clever people, the Jews, and abandoning their Palestine 
to put on all the rest of the world as a shepherd putteth 
on his garment, beginning with English journalism and 
American politics as a convenient intermediary stage to 
soften the transition from their present habits. 

These considerations, though they bear more or less 
on the performance at the Princess’s, are not absolutely 
indispensable to a reasonable enjoyment of it. I have 
always had a special respect for Mr. Richard Purdon 
because his father was Lord Mayor of Dublin when I 


3382 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


was an impressionable boy; and I am, therefore, prob- 
ably apt to overrate his talent as a comedian. Still, 
I can see that his Myles is not the inimitable Myles 
of Dion Boucicault. It is a case of the words of Mer- 
cury being harsh after the songs of Apollo. Boucicault 
had a charming brogue: not even the speech of the 
eminent journalist and M.P. named in a former para- 
graph of this article is more musical in sound or irre- 
sistible in insinuation — “ sloothering ” would be the 
right word, were it current here — than his. But Mr. 
Purdon unhappily did not learn to speak in Galway 
or Kerry. He bewrays the respectable Dublin citizen, 
whose knowledge of the brogue is derived from domestic 
servants drawn chiefly from the neighboring counties, 
and corrupted by the tongue of Dublin itself, which, 
like all crowded capitals, somehow evolves a peculiarly 
villainous accent of its own. With such opportunities 
Mr. Purdon, having a strong sense of fun, and being 
a born mimic, has no difficulty in producing a brogue; 
but it is not a pretty one. Further, his voice, a little 
coarsened, perhaps, by many years’ vigorous exploita- 
tion in the interests of the aforesaid sense of fun, which 
seems unchastened by any very vigilant sense of beauty, 
is rougher than that of the late author. He has to 
omit the song in which Boucicault effortlessly persuaded 
us to accept the statement that “ old Ireland was his 
country, and his name was Molloy,” as a complete and 
satisfying apologia pro sua vita. And the attempt to 
humbug Father Tom is an obvious and blundcring eva- 
sion instead of what it used to be— an artless out- 
pouring of the innocence of a poor lad who had not the 
wit to understand what the priest was asking, much less 
tell a lie to his reverence. Boucicault was a coaxing, 
blandandhering sort of liar, to whom you could listen 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 333 


without impatience long enough to allow the carpenters 
time to set the most elaborate water-scene behind the 
front cloth. Mr. Purdon is just half a trifle too 
grating and boisterous, though of course the generation 
which does not recollect Boucicault hardly feels this. 
On the other hand, Miss Beaumont Collins is a much 
better Eily than Mrs. Boucicault, who now plays Mrs. 
Cregan, used to be. Mrs. Boucicault was always hope- 
lessly ladylike, and usually made Hardress Cregan’s 
complaints of her rusticity ridiculous by being more 
refined than he. Miss Collins speaks the part, which 
is really an engaging and almost poetic one, very 
prettily, and is always right about the feeling of 1t. 
Mr. Cockburn does nothing with Father Tom; but as 
the character happens to suit his personality, his per- 
formance passes, and is even highly praised. Mr. Tom 
Terriss does capitally for Hardress, besides being in 
earnest about his work, and so sustaining the reputa- 
tion of his name. Miss Agnes Hewitt does all that can 
be done with the part of Anne Chute, an Irish edition 
of Lady Gay Spanker, and therefore one of the dreari- 
est of Boucicault’s pet vulgarities. Miss Clifton as 
Shelah, and Messrs. Kenney and Rochelle as Corrigan 
and Danny Mann, were fully equal to the occasion, 
though Danny did not show any of Charles II’s sense 
of the tediousness of a prolonged death agony. Mrs. 
Boucicault’s competence in the stagey work to which 
Mrs. Cregan is condemned goes without saying. The 
play, as a whole, in spite of an obsolete passage or 
two, and of the stupid mutilations imposed by the 
censorship of its day, 1s so far superior to the average 
modern melodrama, that I shall not be surprised if 
it repays the management handsomely for reviving it. 

I regret to say that the patrons of the gallery at 


334 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the Princess’s, being admitted at half the usual West 
End price, devote the saving to the purchase of sau- 
sages to throw at the critics. I appeal to the gentle- 
man or lady who successfuly aimed one at me to throw 
a cabbage next time, as I am a vegetarian, and sau- 
sages are wasted on me. 


THE TAILOR AND THE STAGE 


15 February, 1896. 
’ MONG the announcements for the forthcoming 


season IJ find one concerning an entertainment of 

Living Pictures to be given at St. George’s Hall 
in the first weeks of May. Mr. Coote and his sup- 
porters need not be alarmed: far from being an ex- 
hibition of nudities, these pictures, it 1s promised, will 
be an exhibition of dress, mcluding the dress of the 
future as well as that of the present and of the past. 
Indeed, the pictures of the eighteenth century, of medi- 
wval Italy, of ancient Greece, and so on, are evidently 
only to lead up to the real point of the enterprise — 
the pictures of the twentieth century. The artists will 
be Mr. Walter Crane, Mr. Henry Holiday, Mrs. Louise 
Jopling, Mr. Lasenby Liberty, and Mr. G. A. Storey, 
R.A., who come forward to justify the ways of the 
Healthy and Artistic Dress Union. The aims of this 
Society I infer from its title, having no further ac- 
quaintance with it than an occasional glimpse of its 
illustrated fashion journal of twentieth-century modes, 
called “ Aglaia.” 


I need not say what wild hopes such an enterprise 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3385 


raises in an unfortunate dramatic critic at a period 
when actors and actresses are little more than walking 
fashion-plates. The actor, in particular, with his care- 
fully ironed new trousers, and his boots conscientiously 
blacked on the sole underneath the arch of the foot, 1s 
a curiously uncomfortable spectacle. The interest and 
fascination of dramatic storytelling are so intense that 
the most nonsensical stage arrangements, provided they 
are customary, or even the entire absence of scenery 
and historic costume, can be overcome by ever so little 
real drama and real acting. But in our theatres at 
present there is so seldom either drama or acting that 
I find myself compelled to study the adjuncts of the 
drama in order to prevent myself publicly and scan- 
dalously going to sleep at my post. I have gradually 
come to regard the leading man in a play as a set of 
applied tailor’s measurements; so that, if any one were 
to get up an exhibition of clothes worn by popular 
actors, I would undertake, without consulting the cata- 
logue, to point out at sight which suits were Mr. Lewis 
Waller’s, which Mr. George Alexander’s, which Mr. 
Coghlan’s, and so on; whereas if I were to meet these 
gentlemen themselves in a swimming-bath, I should 
probably not recognize them. This does not mean that 
the clothes are characteristic of the men: 1t means that 
the clothes have usurped the men’s place. In moments 
of passion the men rebel: Mr. Waller, for instance, who 
never escapes from the tyranny of the Maddox Street 
tailor (at least I have never seen him in a costume- 
play), always shows strong feeling on the stage by 
biting his lips and making a determined attempt to 
escape from his cloth prison at the wrists and ankles. 
I remember once, when he was astonishing the audience 
by a moment of almost passionate intensity of feeling, 


336 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


hearing a lady in the stall behind mine exclaim, “‘ How 
wonderfully Waller is coming out!” She was perfectly 
right: he was coming out almost to the elbows; and the 
action conveyed to me irresistibly the actor’s sense that 
if he could only come out of his tailor’s tubes alto- 
gether, he could show the audience what a real man was 
like — which is the essence of acting. ‘Take another 
example —- Mr. Alexander in “ The Prisoner of Zenda.” 
In the first act (not the prologue) he appears in fash- 
ionable tourist costume, with a soft hat, thus enjoying 
the utmost concessions the West-End tailor makes to 
humanity even in holiday-time. But the suit effaces the 
man literally at every turn. ‘The man has knees and 
elbows (the fact is proved in the other acts); but the 
suit says, “I have no knees and no elbows; and the 
man who gets inside me and sits down near the fire with 
his arms bent murders me.” The trousers consent to 
repress the fickle flexibility of the human leg every 
evening for a couple of hours only on condition of re- 
forming themselves on the stretcher during the other 
twenty-two, it being understood, of course, that the 
wearer will always be gentleman enough to recognize 
the necessity of lacing his boots first and putting on 
his trousers afterwards. Mr. Alexander has been hard- 
ened into iron by these rigorous terms. He has carried 
to an extraordinary degree the art of doing without his 
knees and elbows; and I have no doubt that the com- 
parative coldness of his style is due to his keeping care- 
fully away from the fire. Hence his pre-eminence 
among leading gentlemen. But wait for the third act 
of “ The Prisoner of Zenda,” where Rassendyl appears 
in an undress tunic. The suit of clothes is changed 
into aman; the name of Alexander springs into mean- 
ing and denotes force and personality; the actor looks 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 887 


alive all over as well as at the fingers and lips (an 
indecency which it is the great object of modern stage 
training to avert); he drops ten years of his apparent 
age; his spirits rise; he gambols about; he enjoys his 
part; and when the curtain falls and he returns to his 
dressing-room, he flatly refuses to resume his chains, 
and plays the last act boldly in his shirtsleeves. 

The more a human being is an artist by temperament, 
the more intolerable to him is the hampered movement 
and sartorial preoccupation of the modern gentleman. 
My main reason for adopting literature as a profession 
was, that as the author is never seen by his clients, he 
need not dress respectably. As a stockbroker, a doc- 
tor, or a man of business, I should have had to wear 
starched linen and a tall hat, and to give up the use 
of my knees and elbows. Literature is the only genteel 
profession that has no livery — for even your painter 
meets his sitters face to face — and so I chose litera- 
ture. You, friendly reader, though you buy my 
articles, have no idea of what I look like in the street 
— if you did, you would probably take in some other 
paper. Now if the tyranny of fashion is intolerable to 
the author, whose art is not one of personal display, 
what must it be to the actor, whose art is all personal 
display? As I have said, the more he is a born artist, 
the less he is at home in modern fashionable attire, and 
the more effective he is in a rational and artistic dress. 
Let me again illustrate from our stage. Mr. Forbes 
Robertson is a painter as well as an actor. Mr. Ber- 
nard Gould is that eminent black-and-white draughts- 
man, Mr. J. B. Partridge; and for all I know, he may 
be an eminent sculptor, architect, and goldsmith under 
three other names. Now Mr. Forbes Robertson as a 
modern gentleman is a deplorable spectacle; but as 


338 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Romeo, in a dress designed by himself, he is handsome; 
and as Lancelot, in a fifteenth-century Italian costume 
designed by Burne Jones, he is a St. George: you hear 
the women in the theatre gasp with pure admiration 
when he appears. As to Mr. Gould, I invite those who 
have seen him as Biron in “ Love’s Labour ’s Lost,” as 
Pierrot in De Banville’s ‘6 Le Baiser,” as Ulrik Brendel 
in ** Rosmersholm ” (a mere matter of a riding-coat and 
top-boots ), or even in the indifferent Bulgarian uniform 
of Sergius Saranoff in “ Arms and the Man,” to go to 
the Criterion Theatre, and contemplate him as the 
fashionable seduecer in Mr. Carton’s adaptation of 
** L’Ami des Femmes.” His whole aspect seems to say, 
** How can you expect me to seduce anybody in this 
confounded frock coat and this idiotic collar and scarf? 
They don’t give a man a chance.” 

I might easily multiply instances. Try to conceive 
what our notion of Sir Henry Irving as an actor would 
be if we had never seen him dressed otherwise than as 
a fashionable doctor. Consider why the most common- 
place harlequin in a provincial pantomime is so much 
more lively and expressive in his action than a West- 
End actor-manager in a modern play. No matter 
where you piek your illustration, you will be driven 
to the same conclusion: namely, that the art of acting 
is half strangled by the fashionable tailor. Obviously 
this is not the tailor’s fault. He will make you a tunic 
and a pair of knee-breeehes or kniekerbockers just as 
willingly as a coat and trousers, if you give him the 
order. Why do you not give him the order? The 
answer must take the shape of a profound disquisition 
on morals and eivilization. 

Now that we are nearly done with the nineteenth 
century, it can hurt no one’s feelings to remark that it 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 339 


has been one in which the leading faculty has been the 
business faculty, and the leading ambition the attain- 
ment of unprecedented riches. Functional adaptation 
has worked towards capitalism rather than towards art 
or religion. We have kept up an air of supporting the 
arts by substituting respectability for the beauty of 
life, regularity of arrangement for the beauty of form, 
laundry work for beauty of color, historical interest for 
beauty of theme, and so on. If you take a man in whom 
this substitution has been completely effected by de- 
hberate precept and social environment (as far as such 
dehumanization is possible), and present to him a 
fabric which drapes in graceful folds and is beautiful 
in color, he will immediately pronounce it eminently 
unsuitable for use as a dress material. The folds are 
irregular, and therefore disreputable; the color is 
sensuous, and therefore immoral; the general effect 
appeals to the individual, idiosyncratic preference, and 
is, therefore, eccentric and in bad taste. Only, if the 
color be a very bright primary one — say bright scarlet 
or yellow — which will show the least speck of dust or 
weatherstain, and will not, lke the tertiary colors, 
soften and actually take on a new beauty as it wears, 
he will admit its suitability for uniforms to be worn 
on State occasions. But for everyday wear absolute 
perfection means to him shiny black and shiny white 
— the absence of color with the maximum of surface 
polish, the minimum of drapery, and the most con- 
clusive evidence of newness and washedness, At first 
his great difficulty was with his shirt, because folds and 
even outrageous crumplings were unavoidable if it was 
to be worn at all. But, at all events, a part of the 
shirt could be stiff, like a cuirass. So he took a piece 
of linen large enough to cover his chest, and at first, 


340 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


not realizing that it only needed originality and cour- 
age to immediately attain his ideal of no folds at all, 
arranged the folds in perfectly rectangular parallel 
rows, by means of his great invention of box-plaiting. 
Down the middle, as a last concession to the traditions 
of the chemise, he affixed a frill, like a row of textile 
parsley. Thus he produced the British Islander’s shirt- 
front. In his delight with it, he attached sleeves and 
a body; starched it within an inch of its life; put it 
on, with a complete clergyman’s suit over it; and, rest- 
less with joy, walked about, sat down, got up, and even 
stooped. On removing the suit, he of course discovered 
that the shirt was all crumpled except the front. He 
therefore cut a large window out of his waistcoat, 
through which the uncrumpled part of his masterpiece 
could be viewed, and cut the coat away so as not to 
obstruct the window. And then he was in evening 
dress. Later on he discarded the row of parsley; the 
box-plaits were next; the button-holes were reduced 
from three to one by the more logical spirits; varie- 
gated studs gave way to the colorless diamond or even 
the vapid mother-of-pearl; and finally the shirt was 
buttoned behind, leaving the front so unbrokenly per- 
fect that poets and artists could not behold it without 
longing to write a sonnet or draw a caricature on it. 
Meanwhile, the hatter and the tailor had been at 
work. They had observed that the human body pre- 
sents two aspects — the flat and the cylindrical. They 
accordingly applied planes and cylinders of shiny black 
to it; and lo! the frock-coat, the trousers, and the 
tall-hat, correctly named “ Cylinderhut ” by the Ger- 
mans. The bootmaker was baffled by Nature in apply- 
ing this formula; so he adapted the human toes to the 
simple and regular form of a bishop’s mitre, and so 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 341 


produced, with the help of Day & Martin, the fashion- 
able boot. 

There are persons who affirm that the cylinder hat 
and trousers are the most comfortable, convenient, use- 
ful, and natural coverings for the legs and head, and 
that on this ground they can never be displaced by the 
fads of dress reformers. Some of these persons know 
no better: others, I regret to say, are hardened and 
intentional liars, as you may see by their sporting suits 
the moment they escape from the scrutiny of London 
to the license of holiday life in the country. Respecta- 
bility in dress is happily breaking down at a fairly 
rapid pace now. First the shirt-front was reduced to 
absurdity by its own act in asserting an independent 
existence as a dickey. Then it went into paper, and 
in that vulgar material outshone its original whiteness 
and shininess. Then it condescended to celluloid, so 
that the wearer might keep it up to the mark with his 
nailbrush whenever he washed his hands. ‘Then certain 
women took to wearing it; and instantly the dormant 
sense of beauty in man woke up and saw that it was 
horribly ugly. Then science began to hint, as far as 
it could do so without compromising its social position, 
that starch and blacking are not material forms of 
cleanliness — that, if you come to that, they are ma- 
terial forms of dirt, destructive to the dead leather 
of our boots, and unhealthy for the live leather on 
our chests. Dr. Jaeger made the ungentlemanly but 
irrefragable remark that the verdict of the nose was 
against the black and white ideal of purity; and on 
that shrewd hit he established the cult of all-wool. 
White bread and black boots were challenged by brown 
bread and brown boots. A subsartorial revolution went 
on in underclothing; and the bolder spirits are now 


3842 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


beginning to discard what they formerly only dodged. 
The bicycle “ caught on”; and the man of forty dis- 
covered that it was possible to pass for thirty in knick- 
erbockers. And so, to make a long story short, we 
have come to the right moment for Living Pictures 
from the year 1925 (say) by the Healthy and Artistic 
Dress Union. I respectfully recommend them to the 
attention of our “ leading gentlemen ” of the stage as 
a possible chance for them to persuade the public that 
the prevalent notion that they cannot act is but an 
illusion produced by their tailors. 


TWO PLAYS 


Jedbury Junior: a light comedy in three acts. By 
Madeleine Lucette Ryley. Terry’s Theatre, 14 Feb- 
ruary, 1896. 

On ’Change: a comedy in three acts. Adapted by 
Eweretta Lawrence from the German of Von Moser. 
(A Revival.) Strand Theatre, 15 February, 1896. 


task by producing either a very good play or a 

very bad one. The plays that unman me as a 
critic are those which are entertaining without being 
absorbing, and pleasant without being valuable — 
which keep me amused during an idle hour without en- 
gaging my deeper sympathies or taxing my attention 
— which, in short, would be excellent value for half- 
a-crown in a summer theatre in the Park, if only that 
agreeable German institution would make haste to ad- 
vance with us beyond the Olympian and Wild West 


| WISH some manager would nerve me to my weekly 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 343 


stage of development. It is in dealing with such plays 
that the critic is apt to forget the immense difference 
between his economic relation to the theatre and that 
of the playgoer. A critic not only gets a seat in the 
best part of the house for nothing, but 1s actually paid 
for sitting in it. The effect of this on him is highly 
complex. Whether the net result is to make him more 
exacting than the ordinary playgoer, or less, seems a 
simple question; but the answer varies from play to 
play, and from stalls to gallery. It varies even with the 
age of the play and of the critic; for an experienced 
critic is often as sulky over a new development of the 
drama as a skilled workman over a new machine or 
process; whilst a freshman is equally apt to form wild 
hopes of the new thing merely because it is new: both 
sides investing it with imaginary faults and qualities 
by pure association of ideas, without the smallest refer- 
ence to the unfortunate author’s text. In most cases 
I should say that the critic, whatever he may say in 
print for the sake of a quiet life, is less easily pleased 
than the rest of the public. But with reference to the 
particular sort of play now in question, I am not so 
sure. His verdict, if based on the fact that he finds 
the piece worth seeing, may differ very materially from 
a verdict based on the experience of the man who has 
to turn out from a comfortable house in the suburbs, 
and make his way to the Strand with his wife, and per- 
haps his daughters, at a cost of half a guinea a head, 
plus travelling expenses, or else to wait on a cold and 
wet night at the doors to secure a not very advan- 
tageous or luxurious seat in the cheaper parts of the 
house. It seems to me that a play must have a very 
strong element of interest in it, or a performance a 
very strong element of fascination, to induce a rational 


544 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


person to spend the evening so expensively or uncom- 
fortably as it must be spent at a theatre; and I have 
seen play after play which would have been accepted 
cheerfully as excellent pastime on moderate terms, 
shunned by the public because the terms were not mod- 
erate. The last time I paid half a guinea for a stall 
was to sce Duse play Magda. I paid it without hes1- 
tation, though I had already seen the performance (for 
nothing) in my professional capacity. But if you ask 
me whether I would pay half a guinea to see an average 
London play with an average London cast, I shall 
have the greatest difficulty in conveying a negative 
sufficiently emphatic to do justice to my feelings with- 
out the use of language inconsistent with my dignity. 

These reflections have been suggested to me by the 
two comedies produced last week, “ Jedbury Junior ” 
and “On ’Change.” Both are pleasant enough im their 
way; but they are not fascinating, not important: the 
playgoer who misses them will miss nothing but an 
evening’s amusement. If the prices ranged from one 
shilling for the gallery to five shillings for the stalls, I 
should say that both plays were excellent value for the 
money. As it is, I prefer not to give my opinion from 
that point of view. Even if you wish to know which 
of the two plays is the better worth going to, I must 
point out to you that the prices charged are not the 
same, except to the stalls and gallery, which are, as 
usual, half a guinea (a monstrous charge) and a shil- 
ling respectively. The intermediate charges are, at 
Terry’s, seven and sixpence, six shillings, four shillings, 
and two and sixpence; at the Strand, six, four, three, 
and two shillings. That is, the prices at Terry’s are 
higher. You will naturally conclude that the play at 
Terry’s is better, the cast stronger, the theatre warmer, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 845 


more comfortably seated, and nearer the railway sta- 
tion. The facts do not bear out these inferences. On 
the contrary, as far as there is any difference, the play 
is worse, the cast weaker, the theatre colder, less com- 
fortably seated, and further from the railway station. 
It is a mistake to look for logic in such things. The 
fact that there comes every now and then a play which 
makes a fortune in spite of all drawbacks, leaves every 
manager obsessed with the hope of chancing on that. 
play, and convinced that nothing can materially help. 
him if he misses it, or hinder him if he hits on it. 

“ Jedbury Junior ” is a flimsy, almost schoolgirlish, 
work, redeemed by the happy notion of the Fuegian 
marriage, which proves fertile in funny complications, 
and by a great number of amusing lines, for which the 
author, one guesses, probably supplied the opportunity 
rather than the actual test. She has a strong sense 
of fun, and ridicules everybody over forty, and most 
people under it, with much vivacity. Her young man 
is a remarkably good-hearted and affectionate young 
man; and her young woman, as might have been ex- 
pected, has a touch of reality; but the serious passages 
between the other characters are, to say the least, 
jejune. It is impossible to expatiate on the acting, 
since, save the young man and young woman aforesaid, 
none of the parts present any difficulties upon which 
one dare compliment an actor of good standing. Mr. 
Beauchamp, Mr. Playfair, and Mr. Farquhar are amus- 
ing, Mr. Farquhar having the best of it as a butler 
who bowdlerizes and translates into diplomatic lan- 
guage the messages which his master and mistress, not 
being on speaking terms, charge him with in one an- 
other’s presence. Mr. Kerr is more determined than 
ever to be an antidote to Ibsen: he is frank, manly, 


346 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


wholesome, and English to an overpowering degree — 
so unaffected in his speech, too, that when he follows 
Miss Millett’s vanishing form with his honest eyes, and 
says “ She ’s gorn!”’ a tear of sympathy with this good- 
hearted Johnny blurs the vision and softens the heart. 
In fact, Mr. Kerr has got in “ Jedbury Junior ” what 
every actor-manager demands from the dramatist: that 
is, an outrageous caricature of himself. At no point 
does the part get beyond his familiar routine; and 
though I enjoy that routine as much as anybody, I 
cannot reasonably be expected to deal with it as with 
the creation of a new character. Miss Maude Millett is 
more fortunate. For years it has been her fate to 
provide ‘comic relief” in couple with Mr. Sydney 
Brough, or some other fellow-victim. She, too, has a 
routine which I know by heart. I am always glad to 
see her; and she generally makes me laugh once or 
twice; but to say that I look forward to her entrance 
with either hope or fear, or leave the theatre after her 
exit pondering on what I have seen, and resolving to 
be a better man in future, would be simply to tell a 
breath-bereaving lie. Happily, as Dora Hedway, the 
most human character in this flippant, stuck-together- 
anyhow little play, she gets an opportunity of acting, 
and seizes it with complete success. Probably she will 
not enjoy another for ten years to come; so, before 
she is thrust back into comic relief, I recommend all 
her admirers to haste to see her in the last act of 
* Jedbury Junior.” 

“On ’Change,” a revised play, was new to me, as far 
as a piece made up of such stale material could be new. 
At all events, I had not seen it before; and I was duly 
captivated by Mr. Felix Morris’s impersonation of the 
Scotch professor. For an old often-repeated perform- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 347 


ance it is surprisingly delicate and unexaggerated. The 
working up of the quarrel at the end of the first act 
by Mr. Morris and so skilful an old stage hand as Mr. 
William Farren is an excellent piece of business, and 
produces the best “ curtain ” in the piece. 1 warn Mr. 
Morris, however, that he had better hide his gifts care- 
fully if he wishes to keep constantly before the public. 
I know no surer way of avoiding engagements on the 
stage at present than to know your business. “ On 
’Change ” is an exceptional play in respect of its bring- 
ing into action at least four gentlemen who can act. Be- 
sides Mr. Farren and Mr. Felix Morris, there is Mr. 
Yorke Stephens. He, as we all know, is capital in a 
part which happens to fit him lke a glove — the war 
correspondent in “ Held by the Enemy,” Dick Rusper 
in “ The Crusaders,” Captain Bluntschli mn — I forgot 
the name of the play, but no matter. But Joe, in “ On 
’Change,” does not fit him hike a glove; on the con- 
trary, it would be difficult to imagine a part more 
foreign to his characteristic style and personality than 
this translation into English of the conventional Ger- 
man, warm-hearted, hard-working, cheerful, simple, un- 
fashionable clerk, a good son and affectionate wooer — 
a provincialized, Teutonified variant of the Kerresque 
Johnny, in short. Yet Mr. Yorke Stephens, through 
the mere effect of inevitability produced by the smart- 
ness, address, and grace of a skilled and disciplined 
actor, gets through his unsuitable part, not only with- 
out having his appropriateness challenged at any mo- 
ment, but with every appearance of having been ex- 
pressly born to play it. Finally, Mr. James Welch is 
in the cast, revelling in the part of the Scotch philoso- 
pher’s cockney landlord with fearful thoroughness. I 
say finally, because Mr. EK. H. Kelly’s much-laughed-at 


348 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


performance as DeHass is not acting: it is only tom- 
fooling, which is a different matter. The part, it must 
be admitted, does not allow of much else; still, it is 
no worse than much of the stuff allotted to the others. 
Miss Eweretta Lawrence gives the American version 
of the conventional serio-comic love scene very prettily 
in the third act — fortunately for the play, which is 
rather deficient in feminine interest. Only, that danger- 
ous business with the matches made me nervous. The 
weak spot in the cast is Mrs. Burnett, who should be 
played by an elderly actress with a strong comic talent 
for henpecking. The lady who plays it at present de- 
clines to conceal the fact that she is young and pretty. 
She is, I take it, more anxious to avoid being cast for 
such parts m future than to secure the success of the 
play. 

The first piece at the Strand, Mr. Louis Parker’s 
** Man in the Street,” though it is not new, should not 
be missed, as Mr. Welch has worked up his character- 
sketch of the old vagabond Jabes Gover to an ex- 
traordinary pitch of completeness and intensity. At 
Terry’s the curtain-raiser is a very ordinary sentimen- 
tality called “ An Old Garden,” by Hill Davies, which 
is pulled through by Mr. W. J. Robertson and Miss 
Mona Oram with conscientious sincerity and force. 

One of the most remarkable pieces of realistic acting 
I have seen lately has not been on the stage, but on the 
concert platform, by Miss Beatrice Herford. Miss 
Herford, with the aid of a chair, pretends to be a lady 
with a child in a tramcar, a shop-girl, a dressmaker 
hired out by the day, and a maddeningly fidgety old 
lady in a train. Very ordinary entertainer’s business, 
apparently — until you see it. Miss Herford began 
by amusing me, and ended by appalling me. But for 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 349 


her occasional jokes, and her funny and clever panto- 
mime, I should, so to speak, have changed carriages, 
so faithfully did she reproduce the ways of irritating 
people. If Miss Herford goes on the stage, we shall 
not be at a loss for a successor to Mrs. John Wood. 


PINERO AND GRUNDY ON G. B. S. 


Gossip: a play in four acts. By Clyde Fitch and Leo 
Dietrichstein. Comedy Theatre, 22 February, 1896. 
The Romance of the Shop Walker: a new and original 
comedy. By Robert Buchanan and Charles Marlowe. 
Vaudeville Theatre, 26 February, 1896. 

The Theatrical World of 1895: a reprint of Mr. Wil- 
liam Archer’s criticisms of the drama during last year. 
With a prefatory letter by Arthur W. Pinero. Lon- 
don: Walter Scott. 1896. 


edy. An excellent play of its kind (no doubt), it is 

hardly the class of work I am retained to criticize. 
If Mr. Comyns Carr were to reopen the Grosvenor Gal- 
lery with a collection of the chromolithographs given 
away with the Christmas numbers of our illustrated 
papers for the last twenty years, I should willingly go 
and study the exhibition as a conspectus of the history 
of popular art during that period. But if he were to 
engage a third-rate artist to produce a composite 
plagiarism of them all, and exhibit that as a new work 
of art, I should carefully stay away. Similarly, if he 
were to undertake a series of revivals of all the suc- 
cesses of the Hare-Kendal and Bancroft managements 
in the ’seventies and ’eighties, I should undoubtedly 


] MUST retire politely before “ Gossip ” at the Com- 


350 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


profit by an attentive study of them. But to produce 
a hash of them, made by a couple of playwrights of 
no very striking attainments, as the latest enterprise 
of a first-rate West-End theatre, is really a rather 
uninteresting thing to do. If Mrs. Langtry’s force 
were in the least a comic force; if she had the double- 
edged genius of Mrs. Kendal; if she were even Miss 
Lottie Venne or Miss Fanny Brough, both of whom 
she imitates by snatches; were it possible to feel as 
curious to see her apart from her art as it was to see 
the Jersey Lily of twenty years ago, I might perhaps 
have found “ Gossip” tolerable. None of these con- 
ditions being fulfilled, I was heavily oppressed, and 
should not have endured to the end but for Miss Cal- 
houn, who played admirably as Mrs. Stanford. The 
dresses and diamonds were, to me, dreadful. I really 
enjoy looking at a woman who is characteristically 
dressed by herself, or affectionately and beautifully 
dressed by satin art; but fashionable ladies hung with 
the trophies of their tradesmen are among my strong- 
est aversions; and it seemed to me that this was the 
effect deliberately aimed at in ‘‘ Gossip.”” The parade 
of jewelry was especially disappointing after the steal- 
ing of Mrs. Langtry’s jewels. I have always felt sure 
that the theft was the work of some dramatic critic 
determined to get rid of that ugly colorless glitter at 
all costs; but what is the use of stealing Mrs. Lang- 
try’s diamonds when she purchases or hires a fresh set 
next day? 

The authors announce on the playbill that they 
“have made use of several suggestions found in a novel 
by Jules Clarctie.” I can only say that if they had 
made use of several suggestions to be found in these 
columns, they would not have written the play at all. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 351 


Oh, that goody-goody Amurrican husband —a Wall 
Street King Arthur (Tennysonian species)! And oh, 
that young wife who was about to run away from him 
when she was reminded of her own mother and her own 
chee-yild! Oh, my goodness! It was dull. 

There is one notable use to which “ Gossip ” may be 
put. Evidence has been accumulating for a couple of 
years past that however dangerous it may be to go 
ahead with the drama, it is still more dangerous to at- 
tempt to escape by going back. The two policies are 
fairly exemplified in the production of “‘ The Benefit of 
the Doubt,” followed by the production of “‘ Gossip ” 
at the same theatre. J hope Mr. Comyns Carr, when 
the run of “ Gossip ” is over, will publish the returns 
from both plays, so that we may see whether the back 
track really leads to the gold-mine. 

The annual reprint of Mr. Wilham Archer’s dra- 
matic criticisms — always an interesting event, and es- 
pecially so now that it deals with a year in which 
Bernhardt and Duse contended with one another part 
to part — is extra-specially interesting to me this time 
because of its remarkable preface by Mr. Pinero. At 
first I could not make out what Mr. Pinero was driving 
at; page after page brought forth nothing but an 
amusing bogus autobiography. I call it bogus on two 
grounds. First, because it contains not a word about 
Mr. Pinero himself, his personality, his views, his hopes 
and fears for the drama, or anything else distinctly 
Pinerotic. It might be the autobiography of an in- 
surance canvasser, for all the internal evidence to the 
contrary. Second, the particulars, that it does contain 
as to Mr. Pinero’s lodgings and landladies, his hotels, 
his luggage, and the topography of Edinburgh, are not, 
on strict examination, credible. On this point my judg- 


852 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


ment may err; but can the reader expect me to believe 
such stories as that of the boy who said to the eminent 
dramatist, “The governor dragged me up one dirty 
lane and down another, and pointed out this hovel and 
that, and had some tale to tell almost of the very 
cobbles in the streets, until he just wpon bored me to 
suicide’? If a boy exists who has so completely 
mastered the secret of Mr. Pinero’s dialogue, I say pro- 
duce him, name him. There is no such boy. He 1s an 
invention; and as the man who will invent one thing 
will invent another, I reject the whole autobiography 
as the merest wantonness of fiction. 

But, I shall be asked, is it to be believed that Mr. 
Pinero has written over twenty pages of realistic 
romance out of pure impishness, to enjoy a laugh in 
his sleeve at Mr. Archer and the public? By no means: 
the whole autobiography is only a dramatist’s device 
for gathering the attention of the readers to the preface 
so as to enable him to impart a momentous secret to 
the public with the fullest dramatic effect. And what 
is the secret? No less than that Mr. Pinero does not 
read my criticisms. 

I don’t believe it. 

Let me again submit the matter to the judgment of 
the reader. Mr. Pinero, after declaring that for a 
fortnight after the production of one of his plays he 
reads nothing but “The Mining Journal,” proceeds 
as follows (I italicize the phrases on which my case is 
founded): “One of the flaws of my system is that 
it robs me of the privilege of reading much brilliant 
writing. For instance, I am compelled, by my system, 
wholly to abstain from studying those articles upon 
dramatic matters contributed to a well-known journal 
by your friend Mr. G¥**** B****** S*** — of whom 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 353 


I protest I am, in general, a warm admirer.” Very 
well then, how does he know that my writing is bril- 
liant? How can he be a warm admirer of an author 
he never reads — unless his admiration is excited solely 
by my personal appearance? Such an affectation would 
not impose on a baby. Besides, look at the collateral 
evidence. Consider the enormous improvement which 
took place in his work between “ The Notorious Mrs. 
Ebbsmith,” written before my dramatic articles had 
been in currency long enough to produce any effect, 
and “The Benefit of the Doubt,” written when I had 
been in the field for a whole year! What other cause 
can be assigned for this beneficent change that was not 
equally operative between “The Second Mrs. Tan- 
queray” and “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith ” —a 
period of temporary decline? None — absolutely none. 
And yet I am to be told that Mr. Pinero reads “ The 
Mining Journal ” instead of the “ Saturday Review”! 
Stuff! Why, Mr. Pinero is one of the most conspicu- 
ous of the very, very few playwrights we have who are 
more interested in the drama than in mines. 

To clinch the matter, I adduce the evidence of Mr. 
Sydney Grundy, who actually declares that Mr. Pimero 
is “ marching to his doom ” through immoderate indul- 
gence in the luxury of reading criticisms. ‘There is no 
mistaking the vehemence, the anguish almost, of his 
tone. ‘My dear Pinero, make no mistake. ‘These 
fawning first-nighters have no following: these fulsome 
newspapers represent nobody’s opinion outside a news- 
paper office. You are superior to the newspapers. 
Don’t listen to them; but make them listen to you. 
If need be, fill your ears with war, and bind yourself 
to the mast; but steer your own course, not theirs. 
You will lose nothing: they will soon return to your 


354 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


heels.” This is not the language of a man accustomed 
to see Mr. Pinero austerely passing over the “ Satur- 
day Review,” the ‘“ World,” and the ‘‘ Speaker,” and 
burying himself in the columns of “The Mining 
Journal.” 

There is none of Mr. Pinero’s coquetry about Mr. 
Grundy, whose article (in ‘“‘ The Theatre ” for March) 
is well worth reading, if only for its repeated and 
affectionate references to myself. Mr. Grundy quotes 
me as ‘“‘ the crankiest of the stove-pipe fanatics.” I do 
not precisely catch the bearing of the stove-pipe epithet. 
There is evidence in the article that Mr. Grundy has 
studied my costume too carefully to suppose that I 
wear a stove-pipe hat. Perhaps he means that instead 
of consuming my own smoke in decent privacy, I 
fuliginously obscure the clear atmosphere of the “ well- 
made play” with it. So I do; but what then? A 
man must live. If I like my own plays, and Ibsen’s, 
and Shakespeare’s, and Goethe’s, and Labiche’s and 
Moliére’s better than “ The Late Mr. Castello” and 
“Les Pattes de Mouche,” why should I not say so, 
considering the freedom with which gentlemen of the 
opposite persuasion offer their opinions? All the same, 
I do not approve of the heartlessness of Mr. Wilham 
Archer, who has gone on the war-path against Mr. 
Grundy, and tomahawked his arguments, scalped his 
figures, burnt his facts alive, and insulted their ashes 
with taunting demands for the production of the re- 
turns from “ Slaves of the Ring,” “‘ Mr. Castello,” and 
so on, in order to compare them with the returns from 
the later Pinero plays. This is barbarous, and only 
serves superfluously to establish the fact that Mr. 
Grundy has no case — as if any one supposed that he 


had. For my part, I find Mr. Grundy’s article lively 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 355 


reading, and quite as sensible as most of my own. 
Only, I would humbly ask Mr. Grundy whether he really 
finds these well-made “‘ mechanical rabbit ” plays which 
he champions so very succulent? Does he ever go to 
see them, for instance, except when he writes them 
himself? Depend on it, he has not been inside a theatre 
for ten years except on his own business. If he had 
to go as often as I have, he would lose his verdant 
illusions as to the ravishing superiority of “ Delia 
Harding” to “The Wild Duck” or “As You 
Like It.” 

I was so sternly reproved for my frivolity in rather 
liking ‘*The Strange Adventures of Miss Brown,” 
that I hardly dare to confess that I got on very well 
also with “The Shopwalker.” I am as well aware as 
anybody that these Buchanan-Marlowe plays (Marlowe 
is a lady, by the way) are conventional in the sense 
that the sympathy they appeal to flows in channels 
deeply worn by use, and that the romance of them is 
taken unaffectedly from the Alnaschar dreams of the 
quite ordinary man. But allow me to point out that 
this sort of conventionality, obvious and simple as it 
seems, is not a thing that can be attained without a 
measure of genius. Most of the plays produced in the 
course of the year are attempts to do just this appar- 
ently simple thing; and most of them fail, not because 
they aim at realizing the vulgar dream, giving expres- 
sion to the vulgar feeling, and finding words for the 
vulgar thought, but because, in spite of their aiming, 
they miss the mark. It seems so like missing a haystack 
at ten yards that many critics, unable to believe in 
such a blunder, write as if the marksman had accom- 
plished his feat, but had bored the spectators by its 
commonness. They are mistaken: what we are so tired 


356 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


of is the clumsy, stale, stupid, styleless, mannerless, 
hackneyed devices which we know by experience to be 
the sure preliminaries to the bungler’s failure. Now 
Mr. Buchanan does not miss his mark. It is true that 
he is so colossally lazy, so scandalously and impeni- 
tently perfunctory, that it is often astonishing how he 
gets even on the corner of the target; but he does get 
there because, having his measure of genius, it is easier 
to him to hit somewhere than to miss altogether. There 
is plenty of scamped stuff in “ The Shopwalker ”: for 
example, the part of Captain Dudley is nothing short 
of an insult to the actor, Mr. Sydney Brough; and 
a good half of the dialogue could be turned out by a 
man of Mr. Buchanan’s literary power at the rate of 
three or four thousand words a day. Mr. Pinero or 
Mr. Jones would shoot themselves rather than throw 
such copious, careless, unsifted workmanship to the 
public. But the story is sympathetically imagined; and 
nearly all the persons of the drama are human. One 
forgives even Captain Dudley and Lady Evelyn as one 
forgives the pictures of lovers on a valentine. Mr. 
Buchanan does not count on your being a snob, and 
assume that you are ready to sneer at the promoted 
shopwalker and his old mother: he makes you laugh 
heartily at them, but not with that hateful, malicious 
laughter that dishonors and degrades yourself. Con- 
sequently there is, for once, some sense in ealling a 
popular play wholesome. All I have to say against 
“The Shopwalker” is that there is hardly any point 
on which it might not have been a better play if more 
trouble had been taken with it; and that a little prac- 
tical experience of the dramatic side of electioneering 
would have enabled the authors greatly to condense and 
intensify the scene in the last act, where the shop- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 357 


walker, as Parliamentary candidate, produces his 
mother. It is a mistake, both from the electioneering 
and poetic point of view, to make Tomkins merely 
splenetic at this point: he should appeal to the crowd 
as men, not denounce them as curs. However, 
Buchanan would not be Buchanan without at least one 
incontinence of this kind in the course of a play. 
The acting is excellent, Mr. Grossmith, with all his 
qualities in easy action, being capitally supported by 
Miss Victor, Miss Nina Boucicault, and Mr. David 
James. Miss Palfrey improves, though not quite as 
fast as she might if she gave her mind to it. Miss 
Annie Hill is satisfactory as Dorothy Hubbard, but 
has not much to do. The other parts are mere routine. 


THE RETURN OF MRS. PAT 


For the Crown: a romantic play in four acts, done into 
English by John Davidson, from Francois Coppée’s 
Pour la Couronne. Lyceum Theatre, 27 February, 
1896. 


fos you observed, reader, how almost every 


critic who praises “ For the Crown ” thinks it 

necessary to apologize for the fifteenth century? 
Fancy sane men trying to extenuate a guarantee of 
beauty! However, since that appears to be the proper 
thing to do, let me be in the fashion. Yes, there is 
no denying it: Mr. Forbes Robertson wears a caftan 
instead of a frock coat, and an exquisite martial cap 
of metal and ivory instead of a masterpiece by Lincoln 
& Bennett. Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s dresses are not 


358 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


made by Worth: no controversy can possibly arise 
over her sleeves: worst of all, she does not once ap- 
pear in a hat. It is true, on my credit — four acts, 
and not one hat. Playgoer: be generous. Overlook 
this: they mean well, these people at the Lyceum. But 
what can you expect from an actor who is a painter, 
and an actress who is a musician? 

For the Balkan Mountains and Bulgaria no apology 
is necessary. Honor to whom honor is due! I—I 
who pen these lines — first rooted the Balkan Moun- 
tains on the English stage in “ Arms and the Man ” — 
I first saw the immense dramatic possibilities of Bul- 
garia. And— let me confess it-——I cannot help feel- 
ing a little sore that the work of adapting “ La Cou- 
ronne ” was not entrusted to me on this account. I feel 
that I could have given that heroic tale a turn which 
Mr. Davidson, with all his inspiration, has missed. 

Somehow, I find I cannot bring myself to pass over 
this ridiculous apologizing for the fifteenth century with 
a mere ironic laugh. What does it mean? It is not 
the puerile chaff which the modern revival of artistic 
and religious feeling provoked earlier in the century, 
when our journalists and comic-opera parodists were 
too ignorant and callous to be ashamed to jeer like 
strect boys at the pre-Raphaelite and Wagnerian move- 
ments, until even George Eliot, though on the mate- 
rialist side herself, protested indignantly against 
‘“‘ debasing the moral currency.” All that ribaldry is 
obsolete: nobody now dreams of sneering at Mr. Forbes 
Roberston as “ xsthetic,” or conceives that to compare 
him to a medieval hero-saint, in “ stained glass atti- 
tudes ” or otherwise, would be anything but a high 
compliment to him. And yet there is the unmistakable 
vein of apology and deprecation, if not about the cos- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 359 


tumes and scenery, at least about the play. And here 
we have the secret of it. The apologetic critics are 
thinking, not of the golden age of the arts and crafts, 
but of the later horrors of historical drama in five acts 
and in blank verse, which no more belong to the sen- 
suously artistic fifteenth century than to the religiously 
artistic fourteenth century, or the sanely, humorously 
artistic thirteenth, since they are in fact a character- 
istic product of the rhetorical, intellectual, idealistic, 
inquisitive, logical, scientific, commercial, essentially 
anti-artistic period which we count as beginning with 
the sixteenth century, and in which we trace not the 
beautiful growth and flowering of the arts, but their 
consummation and devastation in the giant hands of 
Michael Angelo and Shakespeare. Those who desire to 
rejoice in Shakespeare must confine themselves (as they 
generally do) to reading his own plays. Read those 
which have been written since he overwhelmed English 
dramatic poetry with his impossible example, and you 
will wish that he had never been born. 

In order to write a true dramatic poem, one must 
possess very deep human feeling. In order to write 
historical drama in rhetorical blank verse, one only 
need possess imagination —a quite different and much 
cheaper article. Shakespeare had both in an extraor- 
dinary degree: consequently his rhetoric, monstrous as 
much of it is, is so quickened by flashes and turns of 
feeling that it is impossible to be bored by it; whilst 
his feeling expresses itself so spontaneously in rhetori- 
cal forms that at the climaxes of his plays rhetoric and 
poetry become one. And so, since his time, every poor 
wretch with an excitable imagination, a command of 
literary bombast, and metric faculty enough to march 
in step, has found himself able to turn any sort of 


360 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


thematic material, however woodenly prosaic, into 
rhetorical blank verse; whereupon, foolishly conceiving 
himself to be another Shakespeare, he has so oppressed 
the stage with yards upon yards and hours upon hours 
of barren imagery, that at last the announcement of 
a new historical play in verse at a London theatre pro- 
duces an involuntary start of terror among the critics, 
followed by reassuring explanations that although it 
ts a fifteenth-century business (more or less), it is really 
not so bad after all. 

Francois Coppée, as a Frenchman, has not caught 
the rhetorical itch in its full Shakespearean virulence; 
but unfortunately the milder form in which it afflicts 
him is duller than the English variety by just as much 
as Racine and Corneille are weaker than our immortal 
William. Therefore Mr. Davidson, as a countryman 
of Shakespeare’s — or, at any rate, of Macbeth’s — 
has felt bound to prepare “La Couronne” for the 
English stage by intensifying the sublimity of its balder- 
dash to an extent which no audience unaccustomed to 
Shakespeare would stand without amazement and laugh- 
ter. Accordingly Miss Winifred Emery, having to con- 
vey to us that she is somewhat bored, is condemned to 
do so by shrieking for the Balkan Mountains to move, 
and the Day of Judgment to dawn, with nothing to 
sustain her in this vortex of academic nonsense except 
the silly popular delusion that there is something fine 
in it all—a delusion which I will not insult her in- 
telligence by assuming her to share. I need say no 
more about this aspect of the play beyond mentioning 
that wherever Mr. Davidson has attempted to outdo 
M. Coppée in rhetorical folly, he has easily succeeded. 
I admit that the heightened effect proves, on the whole, 
that when you set out to be nonsensical, the more 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 361 


nonsensical you are the better. But fifty million lines 
of such stuff will not extract from me an admission 
that the writer is a dramatist, much less a poet. The 
utmost I will concede is that since poets so great as 
Shakespeare and Shelley did not escape the infection, 
we must forgive Mr. Davidson for it, though only, I 
hope, on the distinct understanding that it is not to 
occur again. 

Unfortunately for the liveliness of the play, M. Cop- 
pée’s power of imagining ready-made heroic situations 
and characters is not fortified by any power of develop- 
ing them. Bazilide and Michael Brancomir never get 
beyond the point at which they are first dumped on the 
stage: they keep saying the same things about them- 
selves and one another over and over again until at last 
the spectator feels that the play would be greatly im- 
proved if most of it were presented by accomplished 
pantomimists in dumb show. The second act — the 
Lady Macheth act — is especially wearisome in this way. 
A Turkish spy forces the hand of Bazilide by the mas- 
terly argument that if Michael Brancomir does not 
betray his country somebody else will — probably the 
scullion. Bazilide passes on the argument to Michael, 
improving the scullion into a horseboy. But poor 
Michael is quite unable to get any forwarder with his 
conventional compunction, whilst Bazilide is equally at 
a loss for any idea except the horseboy, on whom she 
falls back again and again, the whole conversation being 
strung up to concert pitch of absurdity by the mon- 
strously tall talk in which it is carried on. The pair 
prance as if they were bounding over the Alps; but 
they do not advance an inch. One has only to think 
for a moment of Lady Macbeth tempting Macbeth, or 
Iago tempting Othello, to realize how comparatively 


362 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


stupid the poet is, and how, of all methods of marking 
time, the most futile is to mark it in blank verse. Even 
in the striking scene of the parricide, there is hardly 
a human note struck, except in the preliminary chat 
between the sentinel and the shepherd, which is a wel- 
come relief after Bazilide’s fustian. When the catas- 
trophe approaches, father and son do not rise for a 
moment into any human relation with one another. The 
more terribly the emergency presses, the more literary 
do they become, taking it by turns to deliver tearing 
apostrophes to heaven, hell, honor, history, hope, mem- 
ory, Christianity, the fatherland, the past and the 
future; each waiting with great politeness until the 
other has finished, the audience meanwhile watching 
patiently for the fight and the finish. In short, except 
as a display of rhetoric for the sake of rhetoric—a 
form of entertainment which is chiefly interesting as 
the only known means by which an author or speaker 
can make the public respect him for unmercifully bor- 
ing it —- the play has no value apart from the force of 
the main situation and the charm of the pretty love 
scenes between Militza and Constantine. 

The acting, though full of matter for the critic, is 
mostly but poor sport for the lay spectator. Miss 
Winifred Emery was not well advised to accept the 
part of Bazilide. The original Bazilide of Coppée is 
a passably credible Bernhardtian wicked woman of the 
stage, corseted into Alexandrines, but not bombasted 
and hyberbolieized out of all humanity, like the pen- 
and-ink monster Mr. Davidson has produced in the fer- 
ment of his imagination. Nothing but a specific artistic 
talent, and a most tactful virtuosity in the artificial 
declamation and heroic bearing of the rhetorical school, 
could enable an actress to get through such a part with 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 363 


credit. Now Miss Emery’s talent is a specifically pro- 
saic one: we have repeatedly seen that the more closely 
her parts touch the actual life and society of our day 
in the classes which she has under her own daily ob- 
servation, the better she acts. In “ The Benefit of the 
Doubt ” she almost persuaded us that she was the best 
actress on our stage. Remove the venue even so small 
a distance towards the imaginative region as the plays 
of the late W. G. Wills, and she is comparatively color- 
less. Shift it completely to the Sahara of rhetorical 
blank verse or the heights of genuine dramatic poetry, 
and she holds her own merely as a pretty woman and 
a clever professional. For Bazilide she has not even 
the right sort of prettiness: she is no “ docile rhythmic 
serpent of the East.” Her habit of speech is positively 
subversive of the poetry of tone and measure. When 
she says “‘ Nothing must tarnish the greater glory of 
Michael’s love for me,” the words “ greater glory” 
come out with a fashionable smartness at which it is 
hardly possible not to smile. All that can be said for 
her Bazilide is that by dint of going at her business 
with great spirit, and with a cleverness that only stops 
short of perceiving that she had better not have gone 
at it at all, she gets safely through, thanks to her great 
popularity, her good looks, and a resolute application 
of her vigorous stage talent to a bold experiment in 
ranting, on the pretty safe chance of the public rising at 
it as Partridge rose at the king in “ Hamlet.” Which 
the public obediently does, like the silly lamb it is in 
its moments of pretension to fine connoisseurship. 

And Mrs. Patrick Campbell, what of her? Ah, the 
change from that mournful first night of the slain 
* Michael and his Lost Angel,” when we were all sing- 
ing, both on the stage and off: 


364 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


*“‘ But what are vernal joys to me? 
Where thou art not, no Spring can be.” 


What a ballad could have been written then with the 
title ““ Come back from Dorchester ”; and what terrible 
heart twistings we suffered when we knew that she 
would not come unless we gave her Henry Arthur 
Jones’s head on a charger! Well, we gave it to her; 
and on the first night of “ For the Crown” we agreed, 
before she had been three seconds on the stage, that 
her return was cheap at the price: nay, we would have 
given her Shakespeare’s head as a makeweight if she 
had given the faintest pout of dissatisfaction. You will 
tell me, no doubt, that Mrs. Patrick Campbell cannot 
act. Who said she could? — who wants her to act? — 
who cares twopence whether she possesses that or any 
any other second-rate accomplishment? On the highest 
plane one does not act, one is. Go and see her move, 
stand, speak, look, kneel — go and breathe the magic 
atmosphere that is created by the grace of all these 
deeds; and then talk to me about acting, forsooth! 
No, Mrs. Campbell’s Militza is an embodied poem; and 
if it is much more a lyric poem than a dramatic one, 
why, so much the worse for dramatic poetry! This 
time, too, the poetry was not without a little tenderness 
as well as much beauty of movement and tone. The old 
vituperative note was not heard; and there was an ac- 
cess of artistic earnestness and power. Possibly the 
vituperative mood had exhausted itself on the devoted 
author of “ Michael.” 

Mr. Forbes Robertson was torn by a struggle between 
the riotous high spirits he was evidently enjoying in 
his own person, and the remorse and horror which 
racked him as Constantine Brancomir. However, art 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 365 


is never the worse for a happy inspiration; and though 
in filling the part of Constantine he was really filling 
a brainless void, he filled it like an artist. Miss Sarah 
Brooke played a small part well; and Mr. Dalton, as 
the elder Brancomir, outfaced the nothingness of his 
part with sufficient assurance to impress the Partridges 
almost as successfully as Miss Emery did. It was all 
that he could do under the circumstances. 

The play is worth seeing for its mounting alone by 
those who, like myself, care very little for the spouting 
of Marlovian mighty lines. Everything, from the cap- 
tured standards of the Turks to Signor Lucchesi’s 
equestrian statue in the style of Verrocchio, shows the 
choice of the artist, not the fulfilment of an order by 
a tradesman. The first scene, Mr. Walter Hann’s 
“ Citadel in the Balkans,”? with its most unrhetorical, 
delicately beautiful mountains stretching to the horizon 
in a sea of snowy peaks, is so good that one asks with 
some indignation whether some means cannot be in- 
vented of doing away with the ridiculous “ sky borders ” 
which deface the firmament. The stage management 
in this first act, by the way, is excellent. Later on it 
is perhaps a trifle unimaginative; and Mr. Forbes Rob- 
ertson has not yet mastered the art of arranging the 
Lyceum stage so as to disguise its excessive spacious- 
ness when interiors are to be represented. For instance, 
in the second act, since there is neither a Court pro- 
cession to enter nor a ballet to be danced, the room, 
in view of the biting climate and Bazilide’s light dra- 
peries, might be made a trifle snugger with advantage 
to the illusion. 

In short, then, everything — except perhaps the play 
— is worth seeing. The spoilt children of the public 
have certainly strained their privilege hard by their 


366 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


treatment of “ Michael and his Lost Angel”; but still, 
since “ Michael” was succeeding in spite of its having 
completely beaten the company, whereas all the forces 
concerned have their share in the success of “ For the 
Crown *’ — since, above all, we can now see Mrs. Patrick 
Campbell every evening if we will, the change in the 
Lyceum bill will be forgiven. No doubt Mr. Jones has 
lost a thousand or two; but in every other respect he 
has gained; and, after all, what is the loss of a thou- 
sand pounds to a successful dramatic author? Merely 
a stimulant to increased production, the first fruits of 
which we shall presently receive at the hands of Mr. 
Willard. And so let us be jocund, and book our places 
at the Lyceum without delay. 


BOILED HEROINE 


True Blue: a new and original drama of the ROYAL 
NAVY, in five acts, by Leonard Outram and Stuart 
Gordon, Lieut. R.N., Olympic Theatre, 19 March, 
1896. 


that they like melodramas, because they are so 

funny. Those who do go know better than that. A 
melodrama must either succeed as a melodrama or else 
fail with the uttermost ignominies of tedium. But I 
am fain to admit that “True Blue” is an exception 
to this rule. It is funnier by a good deal than 
“ H.M.S. Pinafore ” in the absurd parts, and not bad, 
as melodramas go, in the presentable parts. The 
authorship has evidently been divided among many 


I AM often told by people who never go to the theatre 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 367 


hands. In some of the epithets which Mrs. Raleigh, 
as the lady matador, hurls at the villain, 1t is im- 
possible not to recognize the vivid style of Mr. Raleigh. 
One of the unnamed authors —TI do not know which 
—jis clearly an idiot; for it is not conceivable that 
the unspeakable fatuities of the plot can have proceeded 
from the same brain as the part of Strachan, or the 
dialogue, a good deal of which is animated and business- 
like. Probably the idiot was the original begetter of 
the drama. As I conjecture, he submitted his play to 
Mr. Leonard Outram, who, as an experienced actor, 
at once fell under the spell which unredeemed literary 
and dramatic idiocy never fails to throw over his pro- 
fession. He called in Lieutenant Stuart Gordon to 
look after the naval realism, and supply technically 
correct equivalents for the Avast Heavings, and Abaft 
the Binnacles, and Splicing the Main Braces which we 
may presume the original manuscript to have con- 
tained. ‘The Lieutenant, not being an experienced 
actor, no doubt suggested that if his naval realism 
could be supplemented by a gleam or two of common 
sense, it would be all the better; and I can imagine 
Sir Augustus Harris, on being approached on the sub- 
ject of finance, not only supporting the naval officer’s 
view with some vehemence, but taking the dialogue m 
hand to a certain extent himself, with his popular 
collaborator, Mr. Raleigh, to lend a hand when time 
ran short. If this hypothesis be correct, we get four 
authors besides the nameless idiot; and it is no small 
degree remarkable that the play has succeeded because 
the collaborators, in a sort of inspired desperation, 
played up to the idiot instead of trying to reclaim him. 
Take for example the main situation of the piece. A 
British cruiser is anchored at Gibraltar. Its deck 


368 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


is used as a sort of dramatic exchange where villains 
and villainesses, heroes and heroines, stroll in, like bolts 
out of the blue, to hatch plots and make love. First 
there is the lady matador who loves the captain and 
hates the heroine whom the captain loves. Then there 
is the heroine, who also loves the captain. And there 
is the heroine’s maid, who loves the comic sailor, who 
loves the bottle. Suddenly the cruiser is ordered to 
up anchor and sweep England’s enemies from the seas. 
The women resolve not to desert the men they love in 
the hour of danger. The matadoress, a comparatively 
experienced and sensible woman, slips quietly into the 
pantry adjoining the captain’s cabin. ‘The maid gets 
into one of those settee music boxes which are, it ap- 
pears, common objects on the decks of cruisers, and is 
presently carried into the captain’s cabin. The heroine, 
taught by love to divine a surer hiding-place, gets into 
one of the ship’s boilers. Here the hand of the idiot 1s 
apparent, striking out a situation which would never 
have occurred to Shakespeare. Once fairly at sea, the 
matadoress gives way to an inveterate habit of smoking, 
and is smelt out by the captain. She throws her arms 
boldly about him, and declares that he is hers for ever. 
Enter, inopportunely, the navigating officer. He 1s 
scandalized, but retires. When he thinks it safe to 
return, it is only to find the maid emerging from the 
settee to dispute possession of the captain, on behalf 
of the heroine, with the matadoress. Hereupon he de- 
scribes the ship as the captain’s harem, and 1s placed 
under arrest. Then comes the great dramatic oppor- 
tunity of the matadoress. Becoming acquainted, 
Heaven knows how, with the hiding-place of the heroine, 
she takes the stage alone, and draws a thrilling picture 
of her rival’s impending doom. She describes her in 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 369 


the clammy darkness and dank cold of that boiler, lis- 
tening to the wild beats of her own heart. Then the 
sensation of wet feet, the water rising to her ankles, 
her knees, her waist, her neck, until only by standing 
on tiptoe, with frantic upturned face, can she 
breathe. One mercy alone seems vouchsafed to her: 
the water has lost its deadly chill. Nay, it is getting 
distinctly warm, even hot — hotter — scaldmg! Im- 
mortal Powers, it is BOILING; and what a moment 
ago was a beautiful English girl, in the first exquisite 
budding of her beautiful womanhood, is now but a 
boilerful of soup, and in another moment will be a con- 
denserful of low-pressure steam. I must congratulate 
Mrs. Raleigh on the courage with which she hurled 
this terrible word-picture at a house half white with 
its purgation by pity and terror, and half red with 
a voiceless, apoplectic laughter. Need I describe the 
following scene in the stokehold (“ stokehole,” it ap- 
pears, is a solecism) — how the order comes to fill the 
boiler; how the comic sailor, in shutting the manhole 
thereof, catches sight of the white finger of the cap- 
tain’s young lady; how the matadoress in disguise 
comes in, and has all but turned on the boiling water 
when the comic sailor disables the tap by a mighty blow 
from a sledge-hammer; how he rushes away to tell the 
captain of his discovery; how in his absence the fires 
are lighted and the cold water turned on; and how 
at the last moment the captain dashes in, shouting 
“Draw the fires from No. 7” (the heroine is in No. 
7), rushes up the ladder to the manhole, and drags out 
the heroine safe and sound, without a smudge on her 
face or a crumple in her pretty white frock, amid the 
delirious cheers of an audience which contemplates the 
descending curtain as men who have eaten of the in- 


370 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


sane root that takes the reason prisoner. Many more 
terrors does that melodrama contain, including the 
public drowning of the matadoress like a rat in a trap, 
but nothing quite so novel as the boiling scene. Thi 
last act degenerates into mere ordinary blood and 
thunder, only relieved by the touching acting of Mr. 
Rignold on becoming suddenly penetrated, for no mor- 
tal reason that anybody can discover, with a sense of 
his own unworthiness and the nobility of his donkey of 
a captain, who, though a sufficiently handsome and 
pleasant fellow, displays just ability enough to justify 
a steamboat company in trusting him, under the guid- 
ance of an intelligent boy, with the sale of tickets for 
a Thames steamer. Mr. Rignold, however, is not the 
man to allow himself to be bereaved of a bit of acting 
by the absence of any motive for it. He has the only 
real part in the play: and he makes the most of it to 
the end. 

Nearly thirty actors and actresses, most of them 
capable and vigorous people with more or less distinct 
stage talents, are provided with salaries by this melo- 
drama. They have for the most part about as much 
to do as the hundreds of painted spectators in the 
first scene (which I forgot to mention, as it is only a 
bullfight). Mr. Bucklaw, as the gallant, but brainless, 
captain, showed that he only needs to smarten himself 
a little — mostly in the way of enunciating his conso- 
nants — to become popular in such parts. Miss Laura 
Graves was irresistible as the parboiled heroine, being 
powerfully aided by the fact that the authors of the 
dialogue have thoroughly mastered the great Shake- 
spearean secret of always making the woman woo the 
man. In actual life there is no point upon which indi- 
viduals vary more widely than in the effect of publicity 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 371 


on the demonstrativeness of their affections. Some 
people would rather die than offer or receive the 
slightest endearment with any one looking on. Others 
are stimulated to exceptional ardor by the presence of 
an audience; and it is a tragic fact that these diverse 
temperaments are rather apt to attract one another. 
The shy, conscious man whose impulsive and warm- 
hearted wife will caress him before a roomful of people, 
and the fastidious reticent woman whose husband’s atti- 
tude 1s openly and blubberingly amorous, are familiar 
figures in our civilization. But I cannot recall on the 
stage any ingénue quite so reckless under the sway of 
the tenderer emotions as the one played by Miss Laura 
Graves. On all public occasions she positively showers 
kisses on the objects of her attachment. One wonders 
what a French audience would think of her. It is only 
when she is alone with the captain in his cabin that 
she subsides into something like the customary reserve 
of the bright and beautiful English girls of whom she 
is offered as an authentic type. The maid is hardly 
behind her mistress in respect of her indifference to 
publicity; but she does not take the initiative — is, in 
fact, more kissed against than kissing —the effect 
being so much worse that nobody less clever than 
Miss Kate Phillips could make the part popular. 
As it is, I congratulate the part on Miss Phillips, 
without in any way congratulating Miss Phillips on 
the part. 

One of the humors of the piece is that the three 
stowaway ladies never enter twice in the same costume. 
They change as freely as 1f Worth had a branch estab- 
lishment on board. The fact that this gross impossi- 
bility does not interfere in the least with the illusion 
(such as it is) of the drama is an illustration of the 


372 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


fact that melodramatic stage illusion is not an illusion 
of real life, but an illusion of the embodiment of our 
romantic imaginings. If melodramatists would only 
grasp this fact, they would save themselves a good deal 
of trouble and their audiences a good deal of boredom. 
Half the explanations and contrivances with which they 
burden their pieces are superfluous attempts to per- 
suade the audience to accept, as reasonably brought 
about, situations which it is perfectly ready to accept 
without any bringing about whatever. The second- 
rate dramatist always begins at the beginning of his 
play; the first-rate one begins in the middle; and the 
genius —Ibsen, for instance—— begins at the end. 
Nothing is odder about “ True Blue ” than the way in 
which the same authors who heroically disregard the 
commonest physical possibilities in the matter of boilers 
and millinery, timidly and superstitiously waste half 
the first and second acts in useless explanations of the 
villain’s designs. The thousands of fiery Spaniards 
waiting for the bull to appear in the ring are repeatedly 
supposed to sit in respectful silence for five minutes 
at a stretch whilst the first and second villains stroll 
into the arena to discuss at great length the political 
situation which has led to the presence of a British 
crulser at Gibraltar (as if that were the most im- 
probable place for it in the world), and which renders 
it desirable, from their own point of view, that the 
cruiser should be sunk. Even if these explanations 
were intelligible or plausible, they would only waste 
time: as it is, they are stupid. 

In looking over one or two criticisms of “ True 
Blue * I have been astonished to find the writers com- 
plaining that there is too much realism and too little 
melodrama in it. When a man who has just been 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 373 


regaled on boiled heroine asks for more, it 1s only good 
manners to congratulate him on his appetite; but it is 
also well to point out that he has not the public on his 
side. The really entertaining part of “True Blue” 
is Lieutenant Stuart Gordon’s part. The cooking of 
Alice Marjoribanks is only funny as a bogus mon- 
strosity at a fair is funny; but the weighing of the 
anchor is both interesting and exciting. It is true that 
the interest is not strictly dramatic: it is the sort of 
interest that makes people visit a man-of-war at Ports- 
mouth; but then this is the very sort of interest to 
which “‘ True Blue ” is addressed. The fact that I did 
not catch half the expository dialogue in the first act 
did not disappoint me in the least — quite the contrary ; 
but I deeply resented the gruff unintelligibility of the 
orders by which the anchor-weighing process was di- 
rected, as I really wanted to know about that. What 
* True Blue ” wants is more of the fresh naval routine, 
and less of the stale melodramatic routine. Why not 
allow the captain to descry the Venezuelan fleet on the 
horizon, and give us the process of preparing for ac- 
tion? Why not display in the third act a more inter- 
esting section of the ship, showing us both above and 
between decks? Why allow the catastrophe to be 
brought about by an impossible valet lamely rubbing 
out the pencil-marks on the captain’s chart with a 
piece of india-rubber, instead of by a torpedo, or a 
hundred-ton projectile from the enemy, or—if the 
maximum of probability is preferable — a collision with 
some other British cruiser? J am convinced, with all 
respect to the contrary opinion of some of my col- 
leagues, that in this play Lieutenant Gordon worked 
on the right lines, and his melodramatist collaborators 
on the wrong ones. The play is emphatically not the 


374 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


thing at the Olympic; and that is precisely why “‘ True 
Blue ” is better worth seeing than most exhibitions of 
its class. 


MARY ANDERSON 


A Few Memories. By Mary Anderson (Madame de 
Navarro). London: Osgood, McIlvaine & Co. 1896. 


I should not, under ordinary circumstances, 

dream of believing a word of it. Nevertheless 
I do believe it, because I cannot find the actress in it 
any more than I was ever able to find her in the Mary 
Anderson who danced down to the Lyceum footlights 
like “fa wave o’ the sea” nearly ten years ago. What 
I do find is a strong-minded, clever, intelligent, self- 
reliant, and self-respectful girl whose hobby was Shake- 
speare. ‘The statement that Mary Anderson was no 
actress is one which I am prepared to make, but not 
to defend. If I meet an American tourist who is greatly 
impressed with the works of Raphael, Kaulbach, Dela- 
roche, and Barry, and I, with Titian and Velasquez 
in my mind, tell him that not one of his four heroes 
was a real painter, I am no doubt putting my case 
absurdly; but I am not talking nonsense for all that: 
indeed to the adept seer of pictures I am only formu- 
lating a commonplace in an irritatingly ill-considered 
way. But in this world if you do not say a thing in 
an irritating way, you may just as well not say it at 
all, since nobody will trouble themselves about any- 
thing that does not trouble them. The attention given 


p NHIS book is an actress’s confession: consequently 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3875 


to a criticism is in direct proportion to its indigest- 
ibility; and I therefore say boldly that Mary Ander- 
son was no actress. In no page of these Memories 
can you find any trace of the actress’s temperament. 
Mary Anderson is essentially a woman of principle, 
which the actress essentially is not: the notion that all 
bravery, loyalty, and self-respect depend on a lawless 
and fearless following of the affectionate impulses — 
which is the characteristic morality of the artist, es- 
pecially the woman artist of the stage —is, to her, 
simple immorality. The actress lives only to give her- 
self away so that she may gain the love of the whole 
world: Mary Anderson, asking what it shall profit her 
to gain the whole world if she loses her own soul, 
retires or rather recoils from the stage before her ap- 
prenticeship is over, because she cannot gratify her 
love of Shakespeare and rhetoric without giving her- 
self away to the public nightly to be stared at. To 
her this grudging of herself is a virtue — an element 
of strength of character: it vanquishes her stage-craze 
finally because she does not see that a woman with the 
fit genius can do nothing better for the world than 
make this sacrifice to it. The full justification of such 
a sacrifice — the power to become thereby the mother 
of the world’s noblest sympathies and deepest feelings 
— cannot convince her: it 1s perceived by her reason 
as a duty, an excuse, and (when performed and done 
with) a consolation; but it does not glow at her heart 
as a passion and a fulfilment. ‘The individualist in her 
triumphs in the end: the inner mandate which she 
finally obeys is ‘ Individual, perfect thyself,” which 
finally triumphs over all other mandates — over 
“ Artist, perfect thy work,” and ‘“ Woman, help thy 
kind.” Here is her whole confession on the subject: 


376 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


‘While on my way to England I could not help 
reviewing the eight years I had just finished. ‘The 
retrospect brought as much pain as pleasure. ‘The 
chief good my work had accomplished, I felt, was the 
assurance, verbally and by letter, from many young 
men and women, that the examples of such characters 
as Parthenia, Ion, and Evadne, in particular, had 
helped them in their daily lives and strengthened them 
in moments of despondency and temptation. Their 
gratitude to me, as the humble exponent of these réles, 
was my most valued applause; for it proved that, in 
a measure, I had fulfilled the vocation, so long ago 
dreamed of, in undertaking a dramatic career. My 
efforts had, as a rule, been successful; but the strain 
of constant travel, the absence of home comforts in 
the ever-changing hotels, the responsibility of re- 
hearsals, support, stage-management, and, above all, 
the extreme publicity of the life, had already begun 
to be distasteful to me. The disappointments con- 
nected with the art itself — the painting one’s pictures 
with one’s own person, in the full gaze of the public, 
the dependence upon inartistic people (often compelled 
to use the theatre as a trade) for carrying out the 
most cherished conceptions, and the constant crumbling 
of ideals — made me, young as I was, long to leave the 
stage for the peace and privacy of domestic life. I 
had a greater desire than ever to work, but away from 
the direct eye of the public. The life of a poet, com- 
poser, writer, or painter seemed ideal; for they could 
express their innermost thoughts through the imper- 
sonal mediums of canvas, music, literature, and still 
be protected by that privacy which is so dear to most 
women.” 

Here you have the whole position: the cold sense 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 37% 


of duty steadily weakening instead of warming from 
its first record in her autobiography as the mere prig- 
gishness of a stage-struck schoolgirl to her retirement, 
and the conception of musicians and poets as excep- 
tionally private persons minding their own innermost 
business in a vacuum, instead of strenuously throwing 
themselves into the most yearning and vital intercourse 
with humanity. Here is a passage which will drive 
home, as no comment of mine could, the absolute dead- 
ness of Mary Anderson’s conception of artistic beauty: 
‘“T remember a visit to the studio of one of the most 
prominent French sculptors in Paris. After seeing 
everything in both of the huge ateliers, Lord Lytton, 
a singularly able critic in all matters artistic, sug- 
gested a visit to the Morgue as a means of driving 
from our minds the hideous creations we had seen. 
We gladly assented; and, indeed, the three or four 
figures we saw there were far more beautiful, with 
the calm majesty of death upon them, than any of 
the representations of life we had seen in the studio.” 

The really compelling mandate which sent Madame 
de Navarro forth on her career seems to have been 
“Mary: be not thyself, but somebody out of Shake- 
speare,” conditioned only by an inexorable resolution 
to be first or nowhere. When she was an unknown 
country girl of sixteen she managed to induce John 
McCullough to visit her family. On hearing her spout 
her favorite bits of Shakespeare, he had the enormous 
good-nature to offer to allow her to try her hand on 
the stage as Lady Anne in “ Richard III.” “TI an- 
swered,” this “‘ humble exponent ” tells us (with a full 
sense of the humor of her audacity), “ that I would 
rather not play second fiddle, even to him.” It was 
magnificent; and she lived up to it and went through 


378 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


with it. The position she wanted to begin with (in 
her teens) was that of Mrs. Siddons. It is useless 
to gasp at such presumption; for she got what she 
demanded. She knew that it was childish to cry for 
the moon; so she simply said, with quiet dignity, “ Be 
good enough to take that moon down from its nail and 
hand it to me.” Which was accordingly done. The 
world which once sent Mrs. Siddons back to the prov- 
inces as a failure prostrated itself like a doormat to 
kiss the feet of Our Mary. 

It may be said that this success was nothing more 
than the vogue of a very pretty woman; but Mary 
Anderson was neither the only pretty woman who 
wanted to be Mrs. Siddons nor the prettiest. The 
live statue of Galatea was a most graceful ornament, 
no doubt; but it was a statue for all that; and the 
public neither cares nor dares to fall in love with 
statues. No: “Our Mary” was not a beauty merely: 
she was an ideal. We made a type of her, just as 
we made a type of Mr. Gladstone; and though the 
type was the work of our imagination, and Miss 
Anderson was no more our ideal Mary than Mr. Glad- 
stone is our ideal Grand Old Man, yet it was a certain 
force and integrity of character in themselves that led 
to their being selected for idealization. There is plenty 
of other evidence of this force of character in Madame 
de Navarro’s book. She could work; she could en- 
dure; she had a way and a will of her own; she could 
plan and execute enterprises; she could make friends 
and hold her own among the ablest people of her day; 
she was sensible and respectable in business and con- 
duct (an extraordinarily rare thing both on and off 
the stage); she was normal, popular, and intelligible 
in her methods and ambition; and, being young, she 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 379 


exercised her qualities without the oppressive and some- 
times dangerous knowledge of their power which comes 
with years and with the discovery of the comparative 
infirmity of the rest of the world. A strong, proud, 
positive character of this kind, enhanced by a fine per- 
son, lends to declamation and rhetoric, but not to sym- 
pathetic acting. Its jealous reserve, its reluctance to 
wear its heart on its sleeve, its very superiorities to 
the passions and frailties, the humilities, confessions, 
and renunciations of the truly poetic drama, which 
has for its material the instinctive human creature 
rather than the moralist and reasoner, disqualify it for 
the stage, except when the business in hand is rhetorical 
blank verse in five acts. ‘“‘ Seldom during my stage 
life,’ says Madame de Navarro, “have I ever been 
able to say of any performance, ‘That is my best 
work.’ In all my years before the public, I have only 
once been satisfied with my acting of Bianca, once in 
Ion, never in Perdita, and only once in Hermione.” 
With this must be taken many other passages in her 
book, showing her strong preference of rhetorical and 
intellectual parts to sympathetic ones, even when both 
were by Shakespeare; her enthusiasm for stage anti- 
quaries like Talfourd and Taylor; and her antipathy 
to the modern dramatists whose Heddas and Noras are 
making short work of the declamatory statue heroines. 
Her final criticism on herself, of course, is her retire- 
ment from the stage before she had reached the prime 
of life, or attained that rich and spirited middle period 
of artistic development which succeeds the efforts of 
the ambitious apprentice. The reason she gives is sig- 
nificant enough. ‘‘ Many and great inducements,” she 
says, “have since been frequently offered me to act 
again; but 


380 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


‘Il en coiite trop cher pour briller dans le monde. 
Combien je vais aimer ma retraite profonde! 


A > 39 


Pour vivre heureux, vivons cachés. 


Note how she assumes, this girl who thinks she has 
been an artist, that the object of going on the stage 
is to sparkle in the world, and that the object of life 
is happiness! After all, despite her character and 
force, one sees that Our Mary has never grown up 
— that Galatea has never been awakened. I cannot 
help wondering what would happen if she were. The 
other day, in a discussion as to the best way of cast- 
ing Ibsen’s “ Little Eyolf,” a question arose as to who 
should play the part of Asta, failing the co-operation 
of some tried exponent of Ibsen. I said, “ Why not 
Mary Anderson?” I could not persuade any one that 
I was serious. And yet, why not? Madame de Navarro 
has declaimed, spouted, statuesqued, Shakespeared, and 
all the rest of it, to the height of her girlish ambition. 
She has also for seven years “lived hidden.” Why 
should she not now try real acting, if only as a novelty? 
May not the publication of this book be taken as a 
sign that the charms that sages have seen in the face 
of seclusion are palling? It is true that Madame de 
Navarro says —and carries conviction when she says 
—*]I am content to be forgotten, except by such 
friends as I hope will always keep a place for me in 
their hearts (a rather large exception, considering that 
these friends include the playgoing public of England 
and America). But it seems to me reasonable to be- 
lieve that my experience may be of some service to 
those who have, or think they have, an aptitude for 
acting. I have written these pages more for young 
girls, who may have the same ambitions that I had, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 381 


than for any one else; to show them that all that ghit- 
ters is not gold; and thus to do a little towards mak- 
ing them realize how serious an undertaking it is to 
adopt a life so full of hardships, humiliations, and 
dangers.” This explains, and very honorably explains, 
a great part of the book; but where do those charming 
portraits come in? What moral are the young girls 
to draw from the profile drawing by F. D. Millet, the 
sketch in oils by Mr. Watts, the adorable photograph 
of Mary at sixteen, Mr. Boughton’s Pauline portrait 
picture, the half-length in Albanian costume, and the 
1895 photograph, the most womanly and beautiful of 
them all? I flatly do not believe that this portrait is 
exhibited to warn young girls against the hardships 
and dangers of the stage: I believe it is there solely 
to make us go down on our knees and beg Our Mary 
to come back to us. Which I accordingly do, with- 
out reservation. I will never admit that the girl could 
act unless the woman makes me change my opinion. 
The book contains many an interesting passage on 
which I have not space to expatiate. I may note hur- 
riedly, but with much gratification, that Madame de 
Navarro’s experience on several points supports views 
which J have often expressed in these columns. She 
precisely confirms all that I have urged against the 
old stationary stock companies; and she asks, as I 
have asked, why women do not try their hands at 
theatrical management. Her instructions how to baffle 
an actor-manager who gets you with your back to the 
footlights and talks down the stage at you should be 
studied by the whole company at the — Heavens! I all 
but let the name slip. The records of her very Ameri- 
can searches after relics of Shakespeare and Dickens 
are quaint, and suggest, I regret to say, an almost 


382 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


inconceivable audacity of imposture on the part of 
those Britons who follow the industry of imperson- 
ating the originals of Dickens’s characters and point- 
ing out the houses mentioned in his novels. When she 
played Rosalind at Stratford-on-Avon, “ the stage was 
decorated with blossoms from Shakespeare’s garden; 
the flowers used by Rosalind and Celia, as well as the 
turnip gnawed by Audrey, had been plucked near Anne 
Hathaway’s cottage; the deer carried across the stage 
in the hunting chorus had been shot in Charlcot Park 
for the occasion by one of the Lucys.” Bless her 
Innocence ! 

I close the book with its subject unexhausted, just 
as the author did. The life of the girl rhetorician is 
only the first volume. ‘The second volume should be the 
life of a true dramatic artist. If Madame de Navarro 
will only live that volume, I, the critic, will gladly write 
it in these pages. 


NIETZSCHE IN ENGLISH 


Nietzsche contra Wagner, etc.: vol. 1 of the collected 
works of Friedrich Nietzsche. Translated by Thomas 
Common. London: Henry & Co. 1896. 

A Mother of Three: a new and original farce in thrce 
acts. By Clo Graves. Comedy Theatre, 8 April, 1896. 


Iiaster holiday that Messrs. Henry & Co. have 
just issued the first volume of their translation of 
the works of Friedrich Nietzsche. And such a volume, 
too! containing everything that he wrote just before 
he reached the point at which Germany made up its 


T is with a most opportune consideration for my 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 383 


mind that he was mad, and shut him up, both figura- 
tively and actually. Whilst I am still at large I may 
as well explain that Nietzsche is a philosopher — that 
is to say, something unintelligible to an Englishman. 
Tro make my readers realize what a philosopher is, I 
can only say that I am a philosopher. If you ask 
incredulously, “ How, then, are your articles so inter- 
esting? ” I reply that there is nothing so interesting 
as philosophy, provided its materials are not spurious. 
For instance, take my own materials — humanity and 
the fine arts. Any studious, timorously ambitious book- 
worm can run away from the world with a few shelves- 
ful of history, essays, descriptions, and criticisms, and, 
having pieced an illusory humanity and art out of the 
effects produced by his library on his imagination, build 
some silly systematization of his worthless ideas over 
the abyss of his own nescience. Such a philosopher 
is as dull and dry as you please: it is he who brings 
his profession into disrepute, especially when he talks 
much about art, and so persuades people to read him. 
Without having looked at more than fifty pictures in 
his life, or made up his mind on the smallest point 
about one of the fifty, he will audaciously take it upon 
himself to explain the development of painting from 
Zeuxis and Apelles to Raphael and Michael Angelo. 
As to the way he will go on about music, of which he 
always has an awe-stricken conceit, it spoils my temper 
to think of it, especially when one remembers that musi- 
cal composition is taught (a monstrous pretension) in 
this country by people who read scores, and never by 
any chance listen to performances. Now, the right way 
to go to work — strange as it may appear — is to 
look at pictures until you have acquired the power of 
seeing them. If you look at several thousand good 


384 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


pictures every year, and form some sort of practical 
judgment about every one of them — were it only that 
it is not worth troubling over —then at the end of 
five years or so you will, if you have a wise eye, be 
able to see what is actually in a picture, and not what 
you think is in it. Similarly, if you listen critically 
to music every day for a number of years, you will, 
if you have a wise ear, acquire the power of hearing 
music. And so on with all the arts. When we come 
to humanity it 1s still the same: only by intercourse 
with men and women can we learn anything about it. 
This involves an active hfe, not a contemplative one; 
for unless you do something in the world, you can have 
no real business to transact with men; and unless you 
love and are loved, you can have no intimate relations 
with them. And you must transact business, wirepull 
politics, discuss religion, give and receive hate, love and 
friendship with all sorts of people before you can ac- 
quire the sense of humanity. If you are to acquire the 
sense sufficiently to be a philosopher, you must do all 
these things unconditionally. You must not say that 
you will be a gentleman and limit your intercourse to 
this class or that class; or that you will be a virtuous 
person and generalize about the affections from a single 
instance — unless, indeed, you have the rare happiness 
to stumble at first upon an all-enlightening instance. 
You must have no convictions, because, as Nietzsche 
puts it, “ convictions are prisons.” Thus, I blush to 
add, you cannot be a philosopher and a good man, 
though you may be a philosopher and a great one. You 
will say, perhaps, that if this be so, there should be no 
philosophers; and perhaps you are right; but though 
I make you this handsome concession, I do not defer to 
you to the extent of ceasing to exist. After all, if you 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 385 


insist on the hangman, whose pursuits are far from 
elevating, you may very well tolerate the philosopher, 
even if philosophy involves philandering; or, to put 
it another way, if, in spite of your hangman, you toler- 
ate murder within the sphere of war, it may be neces- 
sary to tolerate comparatively venial irregularities 
within the sphere of philosophy. It is the price of 
progress; and, after all, it is the philosopher, and not 
you, who will burn for it. 

These are shocking sentiments, I know; but I assure 
you you will think them mere Sunday School common- 
places when you have read a little of Nietzsche. Nietz- 
sche is worse than shocking, he is simply awful: his epi- 
grams are written with phosphorus on brimstone. The 
only excuse for reading them is that before long you 
must be prepared either to talk about Nietzsche or else 
retire from society, especially from aristocratically 
minded society (not the same thing, by the way, as 
aristocratic society), since Nietzsche is the champion 
of privilege, of power, and of inequality. Famous as 
Nietzsche has become —he has had a great succés de 
scandale to advertise his penetrating wit —TI never 
heard of him until a few years ago, when, on the oc- 
casion of my contributing to the literature of philos- 
ophy a minute treatise entitled “‘ The Quintessence of 
Ibsenism,” I was asked whether I had not been inspired 
by a book called ‘* Out at the other side of Good and 
Evil,” by Nietzsche. ‘The title seemed to me promis- 
ing; and in fact Nietzsche’s criticism of morality and 
idealism is essentially that demonstrated in my books 
as at the bottom of Ibsen’s plays. His pungency; his 
power of putting the merest platitudes of his position 
in rousing, startlnmg paradoxes; his way of getting 
underneath moral precepts which are so unquestionable 


886 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


to us that common decency seems to compel unhesitat- 
ing assent to them, and upsetting them with a scornful 
laugh: all this is easy to a witty man who has once 
well learnt Schopenhauer’s lesson, that the intellect by 
itself is a mere dead piece of brain machinery, and our 
ethical and moral systems merely the pierced cards you 
stick into it when you want it to play a certain tune. 
So far I am on common ground with Nietzsche. But 
not for a moment will I suffer any one to compare me 
to him as a critic. Never was there a deafer, blinder, 
socially and politically inepter academician. He has 
fancies concerning different periods of history, idealiz- 
ing the Romans and the Renaissance, and deducting 
from his idealization no end of excellences in their 
works. When have I ever been guilty of such profes- 
sorial folly? I simply go and look at their works, and 
after that you may talk to me until you go black in 
the face about their being such wonderful fellows: I 
know by my senses they were as bad artists, and as 
arrant intellect-mongers, as need be. And what can 
you say to a man who, after pitting his philosophy 
against Wagner’s with refreshing mgenuity and force, 
proceeds to hold up as the masterpiece of modern 
dramatic music, blazing with the merits which the Wag- 
nerian music dramas lack — guess what! ‘“ Don Gio- 
vanni,” perhaps, or ‘ Orfeo,” or “ Fidelio”? Not at 
all: “ Carmen,” no less. Yes, as I live by bread, as I 
made that bread for many a year by listening to music, 
Georges Bizet’s “ Carmen.” After this one 1s not sur- 
prised to find Nietzsche blundering over politics, and 
social organization and administration in a way that 
would be impossible to a man who had ever served on 
a genuine working committee long enough — say ten 
minutes — to find out how very little attention the ex- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3887 


igencies of practical action can be made to pay to our 
theories when we have to get things done, one way or 
another. To him modern Democracy, Pauline Chris- 
tianity, Socialism, and so on are deliberate plots 
hatched by malignant philosophers to frustrate the evo- 
lution of the human race and mass the stupidity and 
brute force of the many weak against the beneficial 
tyranny of the few strong. This is not even a point 
of view: it is an absolutely fictitious hypothesis: it 
would not be worth reading were it not that there is 
almost as much evidence for it as if it were true, and 
that it leads Nietzsche to produce some new and very 
striking and suggestive combinations of ideas. In short, 
his sallies, petulant and impossible as some of them are, 
are the work of a rare spirit and are pregnant with its 
vitality. It is notable that Nietzsche does not write 
in chapters or treatises: he writes leading articles, 
leaderettes, occasional notes, and epigrams. He recog- 
nizes that humanity, having tasted the art of the jour- 
nalist, will no longer suffer men to inflict books on it. 
And he simplifies matters, quite in the manner of the 
leading article writer, by ignoring things as they are, 
and dealing with things as it is easiest, with our preju- 
dices and training, to think they are, except that he 
supplies the training and instils the prejudices himself 
as he goes along, instead of picking up those that lie 
about the street as one does in writing leaders for the 
daily press. 

There are two reasons why I can say no more than 
this about Nietzsche. The first is that I am lying on a 
hillside in the sun, basking, not working. The second 
is that I must reserve some space for Miss Clo Graves’s 
** Mother of Three” at the Comedy, which has plucked 
me up from that hillside by the roots. 


888 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Miss Graves has somewhat obscured my justification 
for introducing Nietzsche in a column devoted to the 
drama. That justification, of course, is that though 
plays have neither political constitutions nor established 
churches, they must all, if they are to be anything more 
than the merest tissue of stage effects, have a philoso- 
phy, even if it be no more than an unconscious ex- 
pression of the author’s temperament. Your great 
dramatist philosophizes quite openly: his Imes become 
famous as aphorisms, and serve in the intercourse of 
philosophers as words serve in the intercourse of or- 
dinary mortals. All the philosophers who are really 
alive nowadays maintain intimate relations with the fine 
arts: Schopenhauer and Nietzsche belong as inevitably 
to the critic’s library as Goethe and Wagner. But I 
am bound to say that there is not much philosophy in 
Miss Clo Graves’s play. However, there is plenty of 
fun in it, and in that fun there lurks occasionally a 
certain sense of the humor of indecency which drives me 
to conclude that Miss Clo Graves is an Irish lady. The 
Irish have a natural delicacy which gives them a very 
keen sense of indelicacy; and a good deal of the humors 
of “ A Mother of Three ” betrays the countrywoman of 
Sheridan and Swift rather than of Mr. Pinero. To this 
I can make no effective objection, since we maintain a 
Censor to prevent questions of sex and parentage being 
treated properly and seriously on the stage, and to 
license their improper and flippant treatment, which 1s 
at least more tolerable than no treatment of them at 
all. Miss Graves, struck, no doubt, by the success of 
“ Charley’s Aunt ” and “ The Strange Adventures of 
Miss Brown,” in which the main joke is the dressing up 
of a man as a woman, has tried the effect of dressing 
up a woman as a man. ‘The effect was rather unex- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS _ 389 


pected. Miss Fanny Brough, whose comic force in 
parts belonging to her own sex no one can deny, no 
sooner changed her skirt for a pair of shepherd’s plaid 
trousers and a frock coat than she suddenly became 
quite genuinely tragic. I have never seen the peculiar 
tragic feeling of impending catastrophe more unmis- 
takably produced than in the second act, where Miss 
Brough, provoking roar after roar of not very refined 
laughter by the delivery of lines which she drove home, 
apparently in spite of herself, with the deadliest clever- 
ness, seeined to be torn by a cumulative agony of rage 
and shame. This had so nearly passed the limit of her 
endurance when the curtain fell, that when it rose again 
for a moment in response to the applause, she seemed 
to have nothing of her self-possession left, except a 
precarious remnant of the mere habit of it. I can only 
compare the effect to that of Salvini’s closet scene in 
“ Hamlet.” That an artist capable of producing it 
should have been driven to do so in the wrong place 
by her revolt against such a heartless misuse of her 
powers as the thrusting of her into what can only be 
described, at best, as a not very decorous piece of buf- 
foonery, 1s pitiful enough; but the incident will not 
have been altogether an unhappy one if it opens the 
eyes of our dramatists to the extent to which they have 
been wasting on mere farce a talent which evidently 
has a rare intensity of emotional force behind it. Per- 
haps I misunderstood Miss Brough, who may have been 
giving us a serious artistic study of Mrs. Murgatroyd’s 
feelings, uninfluenced by any repugnance of her own 
to her part; but there can be no mistake as to the 
effect, which might even have upset the piece if the 
lines had been less funny. 

The play has, as its chief merit, a sustained jocularity 


390 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


which keeps the audience laughing pretty continuously. 
A good deal of the stage business is frank burlesque; 
and the acts end, in a rather old-fashioned way, not at 
any period in the action, but at some climax of absurdity 
from which no other extrication 1s possible. But the 
play is by no means brainless; and it is astonishing how 
much this small mercy counts for in the theatre. 

Miss Rose Leclercq, Miss Beringer, Mr. Cyril Maude, 
and Mr. Felix Morris are in the cast — more to its ad- 
vantage than their own. The curtain-raiser is a piece 
called ‘‘ The Guinea Stamp,” by Mr. Cyril Hallward. 
It consists principally of cant, and is badly spoken and 
indifferently acted. 


TWO EASTER PIECES 


The Sin of St. Hulda: a new romantic drama. By G. 
Stuart Ogilvie. Shaftesbury Theatre. 9 April, 1896. 
Biarritz: a musical farce. By Jerome K. Jerome. 
Lyrics by Adrian Ross. Musie by F. Osmond Carr. 
Prince of Wales Theatre, 11 April, 1896. 


that they can do no less than occasionally pro- 

duce, presumably at his own expense, dramas 
of his which I feel they would hardly accept from me. 
But it is not altogether a misfortune that these works 
are produced to please Mr. Ogilvie rather than to please 
the public; since no manager, however cynical, would 
attribute to Mr. Ogilvie or any other individual fellow- 
creature the depravity and silliness of taste which every- 
body ascribes as a matter of course to all their fellow- 


(): R managers owe so much to Mr. Stuart Ogilvie 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 391 


creatures collectively. Nevertheless Mr. Ogilvie’s plays 
are to some extent the worse for his culture and his 
independence. They have the defect of being second- 
hand: that is to say, they have the unreality, and con- 
sequently the tediousness, of the images which the 
imagination produces when, instead of being solidly fed 
on experience, it is merely excited by the contemplation 
of other works of art. Nobody can sit out “ The Sin 
of St. Hulda” without seeing that Mr. Ogilvie has 
read dramas and romances, has looked at pictures, and 
listened to operas. But it is equally clear that he has 
never met a real St. Hulda in his life. He may here 
ask me sarcastically whether I have ever met one — 
whether they grow on every bush for dramatists to 
study. I reply, unabashed, “In London, yes.” The 
nearest Salvation Army barrack or London Mission will 
supply half a dozen saints of infinitely greater sanctity 
and heroism than the waxwork angel whom Miss Kate 
Rorke impersonates at the Shaftesbury. The education 
movement, the hospital nursing movement, and all the 
movements for the realization of religion in social re- 
form have been largely the work of women of heroic 
devotion and sometimes of extraordinary eloquence, 
many of them alive and accessible to anybody who sin- 
cerely wishes to understand themselves and their work. 
They present to the dramatist’s study temperaments 
rich in the passionate qualities, and personal histories 
rich in the struggles and braveries, which are the mate- 
rial of tragedy; whilst their characters positively 
sparkle with the incongruities and ironies and contra- 
dictions which are the life of comedy. Among our 
dramatists, Mr. Henry Arthur Jones alone seems ca- 
pable of realizing the existence of these masses of dra- 
matic material lymg ready to his hand. Mr. Pinero, 


392 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 
in “ The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith,” hardly got beyond 


certain irresolute recollections of newspaper notices of 
“platform women ”; and it is clear that Mr. Ogilvie 
does not even read the newspapers because they are not 
written in blank verse. He holds up a blurred mirror 
to the librettos of Meyerbeer’s ‘‘ historical” operas, 
and would like, one guesses, to make the stage affect 
the audience as the pictures of Delaroche and Gérome 
have affected him. This method — the method of bring- 
ing a reaping machine to glean a crop from a field 
after the harvest—is barren: great writers — Sir 
Walter Scott, for instance — may have amused them- 
selves with it sometimes; but its results are counted 
among their exercises or follies, not among their mas- 
terpieces. If Mr. Ogilvie finds that he is only affected 
by works of art, he may at once give up all hope of 
producing them; for this is the characteristic stigma 
(I thank thee, Max, for teaching me that word) of the 
born amateur. If, on the other hand, he is affected 
by real life, then the sooner he sets about representing 
it at first hand in his dramas the better. For I think 
there is not much of it in “ The Sin of St. Hulda.” I 
say I think, because to a good deal of the play I did 
not listen. I cannot defend this negligence, or deny 
that it was my business — my paid business — to listen 
to every word; but I could by no means achieve it. 
The blank verse flowed in at one ear and out at the 
other without producing any sort of activity between 
the two. I collapsed in this way more especially when 
St. Hulda was on the stage. St. Hulda is a combina- 
tion of Delaroche’s “ Christian Martyr” with the 
“Woman with a Past.” She is herself incommoded 
by the incongruity, and wants to confess, but will not 
come to the point because she has to save her secret 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 393 


up for the last act—-a miserly and evasive policy, 
exasperating from the dramatic point of view. She 
proves, I am afraid, that Mr. Ogilvie has a chivalrous 
imagination, which is the sort of imagination that never 
produces a real woman. Not that the men are much 
more real; but they presume less on their unreality, 
and are consequently less tedious. ‘They all begin with 
a considerable air of becoming important presently — 
so considerable, in fact, that it was quite late in the 
evening before I finally despaired of them. Prince 
Otho in particular was a rare impostor in this way. 
In spite of his rather Tappertitian beginning by mak- 
ing a haughty noble who had formerly insulted him 
publicly clean his boots, he kept up appearances long 
after I had given up Heinrich, Knipperdolling, and 
Manteuffel (a walking gentleman who entered as if 
he were going to eclipse Louis XI and Richard III) 
as men of straw. In this he was powerfully abetted 
by his impersonator, Mr. Cartwright, who seems to 
possess stage temperament and susceptibility to an 
extraordinary degree without any backing to them. He 
sometimes makes clever~——even delicate — strokes by 
instinct; and his staginess is not altogether unoriginal ; 
but he seems unable to connect any of the things he 
can do with any definite conception of character. Mr. 
Kemble almost made a part out of the Burgomaster: 
as it was, he certainly made a picture of him. Mr. 
Lewis Waller, as Heinrich, apparently shared my 
opinion of St. Hulda; for he was as cool a lover as 
ever I saw, taking the lady’s death with a Christian 
resignation which belied the lamenting lines he had 
to utter. Here, as in the second act of “ A Woman’s 
Reason,” he seemed quite disabled, when the moment 
came for a display of pitiable abandonment, by his own 


394 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


dignity and good sense. But in the prouder passages 
he played with unexpected force, and in the climax to 
the third act rose fully to the situation, and struck in 
his defiance of Otho up to the hilt. Nobody would 
have recognized in this bold and handsome young 
medieval knight the sentimental leading man strug- 
gling with his tailor, with whom Mr. Waller’s admirers 
have hitherto been familiar. 

Miss Kate Rorke did what all experienced and com- 
petent actresses do when they have a great many blank- 
verse lines to deliver, and no part. She fell back on 
her style. It was all very intelligent, and very musical, 
and very plastic; and it had a certain technical in- 
terest, just as Mme. Patti practising her scales would 
have had. But there was a great deal too much of it; 
and I have rarely experienced a more refreshing relief 
than when, on the company being called on the stage 
to receive applause at the end, Miss Rorke smiled quite 
naturally, and beckoned to Mr. Ogilvie to come forward. 
That little touch of sincerity gave away all the rest 
of her performance, revealing its utter formality in a 
flash. 

The play would, I am afraid, be rather dutl if it were 
not for a certain operatic fire which serves Mr. Ogilvie 
for solid Shakespearean power. Heinrich standing fas- 
cinated by the vision of St. Hulda at the end of Act I, 
Otho’s Mephistophelean laugh at the end of Act II, St. 
Hulda’s denial at the end of Act III, and the apotheosis 
at the end of Act IV are all operatic, and all as effec- 
tive in that way as they can be without music. The 
sword combat, in which Mr. Cartwright inadvertently 
nearly clove Mr. Waller in twain, and the death of the 
heroine, are in the same taste. The costumiers have 
made the most of the swaggering hats and plumes, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 395 


puffs and slashes, square-toed shoes and two-handled 
swords, which we know from Holbein and Diirer; but 
the result is handsome and “historical” rather than 
artistic. The fact that Miss Rorke’s saintly dresses 
are too Victorian to be interesting, and that three of 
the four scenes are German interiors, the open-air one 
being dark, crowded, and very artificially lighted for 
the sake of Miss Rorke’s halo, produces a certain heavi- 
ness of effect. A dramatist should never forget that 
plays want plenty of fresh air. Half the charm of 
“For the Crown,” the success of which has probably 
helped to smooth the way for “ St. Hulda,” lies in its 
liberal supply of mountain ozone. 

I have rarely seen an audience so unanimous as that 
which crowded to witness the first representation of 
‘“* Biarritz” at the Prince of Wales Theatre. It was 
unanimous in hope at the beginning, unanimous in doubt 
in the middle, and unanimous in derision at the end. 
‘* Biarritz’ is sure to run triumphantly for several 
years, since nothing but the substitution of “ special 
features ” for every five minutes of the original work, 
and their frequent renewal, involving the conversion of 
the whole into a variety entertainment, could possibly 
keep it in existence for a fortnight. What Mr. Jerome 
K. Jerome was thinking of when he wrote it is hard 
to imagine; but he has written to the papers promis- 
ing to explain everything when the worst is over. As 
to Mr. Lowenfeld, he appears to have been exercising 
his judgment, with the usual result. The only prom- 
ising idea in the piece from the Prince of Wales Theatre 
point of view, is the placing of the scene in a hotel. 
This gives openings for those sallies of schoolboyish 
blackguardism which are supposed to throw a spell of 
fascinating wickedness round the “ musical farces ” 


396 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


which serve as a setting to the jewel of Mr. Arthur 
Roberts’s talent. Thus an old gentleman, having, like 
Mr. Pickwick on a celebrated occasion, lost his room 
and forgotten its number, wanders about in his dress- 
ing-gown asking everybody for his wife; and when he 
is at last taken upstairs by a chambermaid, a knowing 
laugh cackles up from the young gentlemen who think 
they know what large Continental hotels and their 
chambermaids are — never having been in one. When 
every obvious and uninteresting variation on this is ex- 
hausted, Mr. Roberts comes to the rescue with a song, 
in which he describes how he met in Piccadilly a woman 
who lived in St. John’s Wood as somebody’s mistress ; 
how he accosted her; what he gave her for supper; and 
how he went to St. John’s Wood with her. The story 
was much less interesting than an ordinary police case; 
but when Mr. Roberts had sung it, the audience seemed 
proud of him, and he seemed proud of himself. He also 
made mirth by his manner of beginning his conversations 
with women by the remark, ‘ Where have I seen you 
before? ” which is understood to be the formula by 
which gentlemen in the Empire Theatre promenade get 
over the embarrassment of addressing ladies to whom 
they have not been formally introduced. I confess I 
found this desperately dull. Witty things can be said 
by witty people about prostitution, as about any other 
subject; but prostitution is not a merry subject m 
itself — rather the reverse. For the rest, Mr. Roberts 
gabbled, and dropped his aitches, and got from one of 
his favorite points to another anyhow, not thinking his 
audience worth the trouble of maintaining any style 
or taking any care. Naturally, a comedian who has 
no great respect for himself has none for the public 
who encourage him. However, I have no right to preach 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 3897 


at Mr. Roberts: all I am entitled to say is that I am 
tired of his mannerisms and that his Leicester Square 
pleasantries bore and offend me. 

If “ Faith, creating what it feigned” (a Shelleyan 
motto prefixed by Mr. Ogilvie to ‘St. Hulda”) broke 
down in the case of a favorite like Mr. Roberts, who 
has talent enough to fall back on acting as a means 
of livelihood when the public begins to tire of his pres- 
ent occupation, it need hardly be said that his colleagues 
were not more fortunate. I appreciate the brightness 
and determination with which Miss Kitty Loftus as- 
serts herself as “a jolly little folly’ (so Mr. Ross 
expresses it), with uncommon gifts as a dancer, singer, 
and speaker; and as soon as I am fortunate enough 
to find her dancing a single step, singing a single note, 
or speaking a single line, in a really uncommon way, 
I shall admit her pretensions and renounce my present 
heresy, which is, that Miss Kitty Loftus is a vivacious 
young lady who works very hard at being gay and 
pretty without knowing exactly how artists manage such 
things. Miss Phyllis Broughton dances her old dance, 
smiles her old smile, and sauces her old sauciness with 
her old success as if they and she had been invented 
yesterday. Miss Sadie Jerome, in attempting to repeat 
the success of her Lalage Potts song, only betrays the 
fact that she has gained nothing by her appearance m 
“Gentleman Joe” but a relapse into amateurishness. 
Miss Millie Hylton maintains a certain degree of ar- 
tistic form, playing a trivial part prettily enough. 
Some of the other ladies on the stage have no artistic 
business there at all. Why are there so many manner- 
less girls, graceless girls, silly girls, impudent girls, 
and girls condemned to hopeless ugliness by having to 
wear trousers with jackets cut to fit waists like corset 


398 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


advertisements — a stupidity that would make Psyche 
herself unpresentable? I object to all these austerities: 
I am voluptuary enough to like nice girls, interesting 
girls, well-dressed and well-grouped girls; and I con- 
ceive the duties of a manager as including the selection 
and engagement of such girls and no others. Two 
minutes of “ Biarritz” would reconcile a Trappist to 
his monastery for life. 

The best part of the entertainment is Mr. Osmond 
Carr’s music — mere stereo, no doubt, much of it, but 
smart, appropriate stereo. A few of the numbers are 
pretty and musically witty. And the music has been 
thoroughly well got up by Mr. Herbert Bunning, who 
handles the band excellently. 


PUNCH AND JUDY AGAIN 


The Rogue’s Comedy: a play in three acts. By Henry 
Arthur Jones. Garrick Theatre, 21 April, 1896. 


SAFE rule for the dramatist is, “ When in 
A doubt, revive Punch and Judy.” Mr. Henry 
Arthur Jones is not in doubt; but he is in 
dudgeon — not peevish personal dudgeon, but artistic, 
philosophic dudgeon, inevitable after the unnatural 
death of “ Michael and his Lost Angel.” Accord- 
ingly, he has fallen back on Punch and Judy, the 
eternal rogue’s comedy, tempting the business dramatist 
by its assured popularity, and fascinating the artist 
dramatist by its unlimited depth, which yet involves no 
obligation to fully fathom it or else fail. Success is 
safe at any depth, from an inch downwards, At the 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 399 


street corner, with a deplorable Judy, an infant thrown 
out of the window, a dog Toby, and a few assorted 
types of law and order culminating in a hangman and 
a devil, the great issues of the comedy can be ribaldly 
touched to the music of pipes and drum. At the other 
end of the range, Mozart’s “‘ Don Giovanni,’ the 
world’s masterpiece in stage art, is only Punch on a 
higher plane. Every brace of vagabonds can master 
and perform the one; the greatest artists in the world 
can, at their best, only bungle through the other. Be- 
tween the two lies all philosophic comedy, high and 
low, with its Faustuses, its Robert Macaires, its Affable 
Hawks, its Jeremy Diddlers, its common Joeys with 
red-hot poker and sausages, its Pierrots, and, since last 
Tuesday night, its Mr. Bailey Prothero. The first 
question about him, then, 1s as to which of his ancestors 
in the great family of Punch’s reincarnations he most 
resembles. Not that rare bird the Mozartian Don as- 
suredly. It is true that Bailey drinks four glasses 
of champagne, and “ bucks up,” as he expresses it, after 
them; but he cannot sing a pean to the joy of hfe like 
“ Finch’ han dal vino,’”? nor need our actors so miser- 
ably fail in catching his ecstasy as to drive any one 
to find a new mode of utterance for its wicked rapture 
through the mechanism of the most brilliant of instru- 
ments, as Liszt was driven in the Don’s case. Bailey 
does not cut a figure in the high comedy region: his 
place is in melodramatic farce. This suggests Robert 
Macaire; and there is certainly a family resemblance; 
but as Robert was an entire and perfect scoundrel, and 
we cannot nowadays bear to damn any one, Bailey has 
been made a good husband and father. As a rascal 
redeemed by sentiment, he is more like that amiable 
young relative of the family, the Chevalier des Grieux, 


400 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


only older, coarser, and without Manon Lescaut. In- 
stead of Manon, he has a lawful wife, so far like Mrs. 
Jerry Cruncher in “A Tale of Two Cities,” that her 
habit of “ flopping’”— that is, kneeling down in 
prayer — jars on her husband. I do not think much 
of Mrs. Prothero. Her humanity is sacrificed to write 
up the actor-manager’s part —a sacrifice of the eter- 
nal to the temporal. In the first act we see her enjoy- 
ing an income of £80 a year and dressing like Mrs. 
Langtry on it, her dramatic function being to act as 
her husband’s confederate in his fortune-telling busi- 
ness. Not until the second act does she develop a 
tender conscience; and even then she makes no difficulty 
about shutting it up tight at her husband’s urgent re- 
quest, herein departing from the example of Mrs. 
Cruncher, who braved boots and pokers rather than 
refrain from praying steadfastly agamst the success 
of Mr. Cruncher’s illicit pursuits as a resurrection- 
man. When, in the third act, Judy Prothero allows 
Bailey to assure their son that of his mother, at least, 
he need never be ashamed, it is impossible not to revolt 
at the recollection of her active complicity in the 
duperies of the first act. It is all very well for Mr. 
Jones to set her to catch sympathy for Mr. Willard; 
but the plain truth is that she is just as bad as Bailey 
— worse, in fact, because she sets up religious preten- 
sions to be morally superior to him whilst living on the 
profits of his swindling. 

The characterization of the figures which surround 
Bailey Prothero does not go very deep. Of course Mr. 
Jones, with his fertile imagination and humorous ob- 
servation, could no more miss individualizing a figure 
here and there than Dickens could. The most enter- 
taining result of his powers in this way is Mr. Robert 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 401 


Cushing, who plays Bertrand to Prothero’s Macaire so 
faithfully that when his unfortunate habit of purloin- 
ing the spoons comes into play, the scene needs nothing 
but a creaking snuff-box in Mr. Willard’s hands to 
take us back to the Auberge des Adrets at once. But 
the characterization is capital underneath the farce, 
and very funny. The wretch is so feeble that even 
his efforts to swear do not get beyond a fat, flat, 
twaddle-toned “ Oh my goodness gracious!” The ab- 
ject folly of his perfectly sound plea of “ total loss of 
self-respect,” and the helpless way in which he suc- 
cumbs to every opportunity of doing wrong, even with 
the certainty of ignominious detection staring him in 
the face, not only make highly ticklesome buffoonery, 
but hit off in a few strokes the leading lines of a hope- 
lessly rickety and rotten moral constitution. Cushing 
is the best character in the play; and though he is 
only on the stage for a few minutes, I am not sure that 
Mr. Standing, who plays him to a miracle, is not 
luckier than Mr. Willard himself in his part. Another 
personage who is purely comic in his dramatic function, 
but yet individualized as a character type, is the silly- 
billy Lord Dovergreen, a little burlesqued by Mr. Syd- 
ney Brough, but not spoiled. Lord Bicester is also a 
vivid thumbnail sketch; and there is hfe in Miss Proye 
and Lambert the footman. These people not only say 
funny things, but say them with a genuine character 
modification ——~ not a mere trick of phrase or manner. 
For all that, the play is not one of Mr. Jones’s best. 
That part of the dialogue which is mere social chatter 
is not nearly so witty as the small talk in “ The Mas- 
queraders ”?; and as to the high comedy of “ Rebellious 
Susan,” it is quite out of sight. Some of the characters 
are downright bad; for instance, Lord John Bucklow 


402 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


6 


is the hackneyed old stage roué — the “ man of pleas- 
ure become a man of pain,” as Charles Reade put it — 
with the hackneyed manner and make-up. Mr. David 
James, with his simperings, and his dammes, and his 
whistlings of the intervals of the common chord (as 
if that were a possible nervous trick), certainly acts 
him as badly as possible; but the part invites his 
abuse of it. Lady Clarabut, again, is nothing but a 
night’s work for Lady Monckton; and the two lovers 
decorously carry on the story without stepping for- 
ward into any sort of individuality. In short, the 
leading characters are not characters at all, but only 
supports for Bailey Prothero. In a play by Mr. 
Grundy, or any other votary of the “ well-made ” or 
mechanical rabbit play, I should not complain of this, 
since everybody knows that if a mechanical rabbit is 
to move, 1t must have wheels for entrails; but one ex- 
pects living members from Mr. Jones. At all events, 
one pays him the compliment of noticing the appear- 
ance of automata among his characters as a thing not 
altogether to be expected. As to the character for 
which this sacrifice has been made. I confess I should 
like, before judging it finally, to see it played by a 
genuine comedian — say Mr. Wyndham or Mr. Hare. 
Mr. Willard is a good actor, but not of that kind. 
He begins with comic “ character acting” laid on in 
hearty and by no means delicate strokes; and when 
the vein changes, he plunges, without the slightest gra- 
dation, head over heels into melodrama. His grip 
throughout is far too strenuous to admit of dainty 
handling: he grinds out his words at a clerically low 
pitch with a voice that has changes but no inflections, 
wedging his face into a mask that can be instantly re- 
arranged for mirth or melancholy, but which has no 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 403 


shades, and can therefore tell of moods and shocks, but 
not of processes or fluctuations. The part presents 
certain well-marked main aspects — the rogue at work, 
the rogue triumphant, the rogue alarmed, the rogue 
reckless, the father wounded, the father tender, and the 
husband good-natured. These being patent and unmis- 
takable, Mr. Willard seized on them vigorously enough; 
but as each one recurred he treated it exactly as he 
had treated it before, with a single facial expression 
and a single tone; so that his performance resolved 
itself into a repetition of some half-dozen effects, and 
would have become monotonous but for the activity 
with which the author kept the story going. In fact, 
it did become monotonous, especially in the matter of 
voice, wherever the author’s pace slackened. Neverthe- 
less it kept the audience in good humor by its geniality 
and sustained vigor; and in the final scene it had pa- 
thetic strength — the final exit, with the shake-hands 
with the son and the “ Buck up, old girl ” to the wife, 
was admirable; but of the subtle, continuous, exquis- 
itely nuanced acting, apparently infinite in variety, 
which becomes classical in high comedy — such work 
as we have seen in Duse’s Mirandolina, Coquelin’s 
Duval, Hare’s Baron Croodle, Charles Mathews’s Mer- 
cadet, and Jefferson’s farcical heroes — there was not 
a trace. It is true that the play itself, as I began 
by saying, is melodramatic farce rather than high 
comedy; but all the classical examples I have cited are 
examples of high comedians playing in farces. I 
should add that the character of Bailey Prothero is 
completely redeemed from the falseness and crudity of 
melodrama by many admirable touches, notably the 
absence of conventional exaggeration in the fatherly 
emotion, which is presented for exactly what it is 


404. DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


worth by the author with an acute nicety that is also 
stealthily humorous. Fortunately, this is one of the 
points to which Mr. Willard’s performance does justice. 

Miss Oliffe, who played Mrs. Prothero, was new to 
the critics, though I had had the luck to discover her 
at the Avenue during the illness of Miss Alma Stanley 
some time ago. She deepened the favorable impression 
I received on that occasion, and will, I have no doubt, 
soon be a familiar and indispensable figure in our Lon- 
don casts. The end of that will be, I suppose, that 
she will give up acting, and have all her parts written 
expressly for her. Indeed, of the play as a whole I 
cannot say that it altogether escaped that rawness 
and uneasiness of presentation from which Mr. Jones’s 
recent plays have suffered so frightfully, the truth be- 
ing that the moment our actors are taken out of the 
routine parts which are merely the latest dramatiza- 
tions, or rather stagings, of their own personal pecu- 
liarities — the moment, in short, they are called upon 
to impersonate new characters instead of being pre- 
sented with old characters that impersonate them — 
they lose their style, and even their ease and assurance; 
so that Mr. Jones’s originality is positively made a 
means of worrying the audience into a longing to get 
back to that familiar little world in which Mr. Sydney 
Brough makes love to Miss Maud Millett under the 
parental eyes of Miss Rose Leclereq and Mr. Cyril 
Maude, whilst some nice leading lady and gentleman 
give object lessons in fashionable dressing and polite 
courtship and marriage to the graduates of suburban 
society. This is the real explanation, I believe, of 
the fact that for some time past every play with any 
sort of originality in it has provoked three or four 
weak-souled first-nighters in the gallery to utter 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 405 


piteous howls on the appearance of the author at 
the fall of the curtain. Mr. Jones, having, not un- 
naturally, no sort of taste for deliberate and premedi- 
tated incivility, declined to make the customary appear- 
ance on Tuesday night. It took twenty-five minutes to 
- convince the audience that he was in earnest. They 

cheered and called and applauded until they were 
physically exhausted; then stopped to recover, and re- 
turned to the charge again and again; then, as their 
numbers dwindled, intoned a long, melancholy note like 
the organ giving the diapason to the orchestra before 
an oratorio performance; then hooted dismally; and 
finally sang “We won’t go home till morning,” the 
strains of which, like Haydn’s Farewell Symphony, died 
away as the performers stole away one by one and left 
the theatre empty. And then I went home too. 


THE IMMORTAL WILLIAM 


The Shakespeare Anniversary Celebration at the Met- 
ropole Theatre, Camberwell, 23 April, 1896. 


ITHIN reason, I am always prepared to do 

\ honor to Shakespeare. Annual celebrations 
are all very well in theory, and are almost 

as popular with the people who don’t take any part in 
them, and don’t intend to, as Annual Parliaments are 
with the people who never vote and never electioneer ; 
but outside that large circle they are too much of a 
good thing. I have long ceased to celebrate my own 
birthday; and I do not see why I should celebrate 
Shakespeare’s. There can be no objection in the world 


406 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


to Mr. Benson, or Mr. Greet, or any one else in the 
Shakespearean business taking the fullest advantage of 
an anniversary to give that business a fillip; but who- 
ever expects me to put myself every 23 April in an atti- 
tude at all differing from my attitude on the 23 October 
is doomed to disappointment. I went to Camberwell 
on the afternoon of last Thursday week because, on the 
whole, I thought it my business to be there; but when 
the Irving Dramatic Club wanted me to resume work 
the moment I got back to the West End by going to 
‘‘ Cymbeline ” at St. George’s Hall, I struck. Shake- 
speare is for an afternoon, but not for all time. Under 
ordinary circumstances I should have done the other 
thing — that is, gone to see the amateurs in the even- 
ing instead of the professionals in the afternoon; but 
it happened on this occasion that the professional cast 
was the fresher, younger, and more interesting of the 
two; so I went to Camberwell. Let me not, however, 
exaggerate my own virtue by leaving it to be inferred 
that I got there in time. The hour appointed was half- 
past two; and though I spared neither energy nor ex- 
pense in my journey, making no less than three separate 
embarkations in train, ’bus, and tram, at a total cost 
of fourpence, it was three o’clock before the Metropole 
was sighted. This had two grave consequences. First, 
Camberwell had rallied round the Bard so multitudi- 
nously that the offer of untold gold could procure me 
nothing better than a mere skylight of a box, from 
which my view of the legitimate drama was considerably 
foreshortened. Second, I was late for Miss Dorothy 
Dene’s Juliet. This I greatly regretted; for I have not 
seen Miss Dorothy Dene since the now almost remote 
days when Mr. Henry Arthur Jones was making his 
reputation by writing melodramas for Mr. Wilson 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 407 


Barrett at the Princess’s. Why? Here was a young 
lady who had, not the painted show of beauty which 
is so common on the stage, and so tedious, but that 
honest reality of it which is useful to painters. Her 
speech showed unusual signs of artistic cultivation; 
she had plastic grace; she took herself and her pro- 
fession seriously; and her appearances in leading parts 
were not unpopular. The mystery is, what became of 
her? Did she fall into the abyss of opulent matrimony? 
Did the studio violently reclaim its adored model? Did 
she demand impossible terms? Or were the managers 
obdurate in their belief that there is only one safe sort 
of actress — the woman who is all susceptibility and no 
brains? Far be it from me to deny that every deviation 
from this type involves a certain risk of unpopularity 
— of a demand on the part of the actress, or rather the 
woman, that in the intercourse between her and the 
public the wooing and the worth shall not all be on one 
side. Further still be it from me to forget the fact 
that in cases of positive genius for the stage no ques- 
tion as to the dignity of the actress’s occupation can 
arise. For instance, Duse is clearly a most laborious 
artist hard at work, and not a pretty woman making 
an exhibition of herself. But the appearance of a 
Duse is as rare on the stage as that of a woman who 
absolutely cannot act at all. Most of the routine of 
our leading theatrical work in London 1s done by ladies 
who are not altogether artists and not altogether exhi- 
bitions, but who eke out a little art with more or less 
personal attractiveness. Probably the reason our man- 
agers prefer the brainless-susceptible woman is that 
she is a ready-made actress as far as she can act at 
all; and small blame to them, since we have no ap- 
prenticeship system to secure to a manager the services 


408 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


of an actress whom he trains, and no system of training 
to replace the apprenticeship system. But I get so tired 
of the brainless-susceptible heroine that even an Ameri- 
can lecturer would sometimes be a relief to the eternal 
sympathetic leading lady, who is called sweetly womanly 
because, having nothing but her sex to insist on, she 
insists on that continually. And yet, since women of 
the other sort gets no engagements, it ends in her being 
the only one who gets sufficient stage practice to be 
trusted with important parts, whence it comes that the 
important parts never are important. We want more 
women of the clever, positive type on the stage (also 
men). We also want more objectively beautiful women 
on the stage; for your brainless-susceptible one is often 
your beautyless-susceptible: she may appeal to your 
sentimentality; but a sculptor or a painter would not 
look twice at her from his dry business point of view; 
and her graces of carriage and movement are of the 
cheapest. Her hold on the stage is largely a result 
of the stage’s hold on her through her disadvantage of 
being fit for nothing else; so that economic necessity 
does for her what irresistible vocation does for an 
actress of genius — gives her, that is, the unconditional 
singleness of aim and pertinacity which move mountains 
in the long run. The clever, positive woman, on the 
other hand, has alternative activities: she has ability 
and character enough to make her living in other pro- 
fessions, or to discharge social and domestic duties 
as the wife of a Philistine citizen in a responsible, ca- 
pable, respectable way. Granted that she may have 
only the makings of a second-rate actress in her, she 
would probably make second-rate acting much more 
important than a good deal of what passes as first- 
rate acting at present; and her influence on the drama 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 409 


would be highly beneficial owing to her demand for real 
parts in which to put forth her brains and skill against 
the rivals who rely on sex and sympathy in every kind 
of part. It takes all sorts to make a stage, just as 
it takes all sorts to make a world; and we do not get 
all sorts at present. We get the geniuses and the 
hystériques; but the intermediate talents, however 
promising, are driven back from a profession in which 
brains and self-respect have no chance against emo- 
tional facility and neurotic sexuality. The latter are 
invaluable, the former quite useless, in an empty part 
which is nothing but the merest cue to the imagination 
of the audience; but confront the facile, neurotic, 
empty-headed actress with a part which demands not 
only sympathy but intelligence and trained nervous 
energy; not only “ womanly ” softnesses and graces 
but plastic, picturesque, vigorous action; nay, ask her 
to deliver a ten-line speech — not a hysterical explo- 
sion, but a speech with thought as well as feeling in it 
—and you will soon find how a dramatic author is 
hampered at present by the limited compass of the 
instruments at his disposal. There are always clever, 
educated, ambitious young women ready to try their 
fortune on the stage; but how are they to get the 
necessary experience to make skilled artists of them? 
It takes years of practice to develop their power of 
emotional expression; for most educated women have 
been trained to fight against emotional expression be- 
cause it is a mode of self-betrayal. Now self-betrayal, 
magnified to suit the optics of the theatre, is the whole 
art of acting; and the strong, continent woman, unless 
she is descended from generations of actors, is certain 
to be beaten at first on the stage by the hysterical, in- 
continent one, or even by the stupid, prosaic heredi- 


410 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


tary actress who, within certain limits, acts as a duck 
swims. Under present conditions this handicap is suff- 
cient to baffle the clever recruit drawn from the newly 
emancipated women of the middle class in her quest 
for engagements, thus depriving her of the practice 
necessary to train her, and so defeating her attempt 
to gain a footing on the stage. The theatre is unable 
to keep and drill able-bodied and able-minded recruits ; 
and the result is that the class of work which would 
in any other profession be perfectly within the compe- 
tence of the rank and file, has to be entrusted to the 
leaders. And even the leaders are often more remark- 
able for what is called social charm than for any rarer 
artistic qualification. 

On the whole, perhaps it is as well that I did not 
see Miss Dorothy Dene; for it is not conceivable that 
disuse has matured her powers, or years increased her 
natural suitability to the part of Juliet. Just at pres- 
ent I am more anxious about Miss Dorothea Baird, 
whom I did see, as Rosalind. Rosalind is to the actress 
what Hamlet is to the actor — a part in which, reason- 
able presentability being granted, failure is hardly pos- 
sible. It is easier than Trilby up to a certain point, 
though it will of course hold much more acting. Miss 
Baird plays it intelligently and nicely; and this, to 
such a very pretty Ganymede, is enough to secure suc- 
cess. How far the niceness and intelligence of the 
pretty young lady will develop into the passion and 
intuition of the artist, or whether the prettiness will 
develop into the “handsome is as handsome does” 
fascination which holds the stage for many years 
against Time, remains to be seen. All that can be said 
at present is that Miss Baird’s Rosalind is bright and 
pleasant, with sufficient natural charm to secure indul- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 411 


gence for all its shortcomings. Of these the most seri- 
ous is Miss Baird’s delivery of the lines. Everybody 
by this time knows how a modern high-schoolmistress 
talks — how she repudiates the precision, the stateli- 
ness, the awe-inspiring oracularity of the old-fashioned 
schoolmistress who knew nothing, and cloaks her mathe- 
matics with a pretty little voice, a pretty little manner, 
and all sorts of self-conscious calineries and unassum- 
ingnesses. “ Poor little me! what do J know about conic 
sections? ” is the effect she aims at. Miss Baird’s 
Rosalind has clearly been to the high school and mod- 
elled herself upon her pet mistress if not actually taught 
there herself. But that dainty, pleading, narrow-lipped 
little torrent of gabble will not do for Shakespeare. 
It is so unintelligible across the footlights that even 
I, who know “ As You Like It” almost as well as I 
know Beethoven’s Pastoral Symphony, could not always 
catch what she was saying. This being so, it may safely 
be taken that Camberwell did not catch more than a 
very small conic section of it. For even an expert 
cannot make sense of Elizabethan blank verse at a first 
hearing when it is delivered at the rate of two hun- 
dred words a minute and upwards. Besides, its 
lyrical flow, if such a tiny ladylike patter can be 
credited with so broad a quality, is not that of Shake- 
speare’s verse. ‘The effect is hke a canary trying to 
sing Handel. 

Mr. H. B. Irving is in the full flood of that Shake- 
spearean enthusiasm which exalts the Bard so far 
above common sense that any prosaic suiting of the 
action to the word and the word to the action seems 
to be a degradation of his genius to what Nicholas 
Rowe called “a mere light of reason.” Mr. Irving 
gave us the closet scene from “‘ Hamlet.” He entered, 


412 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


surcharged with Fate, and instead of Hamlet’s sharp, 
dry, “ Now, mother: what’s the matter?” followed 
by his reply to her affected “Thou hast thy father 
much offended,” with the purposely blunt ‘“ Mother: 
you have my father much offended,” gave us a most 
tragic edition of the conversation, with the yous altered 
to thous, and an agitated slip or two to enhance the 
effect. When he lifted the arras and found that he had 
killed Polonius instead of the King, he betrayed not the 
smallest surprise, but said, in a superior tone, “ Thou 
wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!’’? much as if 
he were dismissing a deservedly and quite intentionally 
flogged schoolboy. He was resolved to make an effect 
by seizing the Queen and throwing her down on the 
floor; and the moment he selected was in the middle 
of the following passage: 


“ At your age 
The heyday in the blood is tame: it’s humble, 
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment 
Would step from this to this? ” 


The Queen was floored after the phrase “ and waits 
upon the judgment,” showing that at Mr. Irving’s age 
the heyday in the blood does not wait upon the judg- 
ment, but has its fling (literally) regardless of reason. 
The only dramatic profit from this proceeding was 
the point given to the Ghost’s “ But see! amazement 
on thy mother sits.” Nevertheless, the performance, 
nonsensical as it was, was not ridiculous. Mr. Irving 
is not altogether unsuccessful in his attempts to be 
tragic and to make effects; and if he could only bring 
his tragedy and his effects into some intelligent relation 
to the drama in hand, he would find himself highly 
complimented in the “ Saturday Review.” To be ab- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 413 


stractly and irrelevantly tragic; to brandish a sword; 
to discourse in blank verse; to stagger and fall and 
hurl frail heroines away, is just as absurd in “ Ham- 
let,” if done at the wrong moment, as it would be in 
“Box and Cox.” ‘here are people so unfit for the 
stage that they could not do these things even at the 
right moment without making the audience laugh. That 
is not Mr. Irving’s case. When he learns what to do 
and when to do it, he will not be at a loss as to how 
to do it. More than that it is impossible to grant 
him at present. ‘The scenes from “ As You Like It ” 
included nothing of Jaques except the few scraps of 
dialogue between the pessimist and Orlando; and no 
exception can be taken to the way in which these were 
handled by Mr. Irving. He dressed and looked the 
part well. 

The best bit of work was Mr. Bernard Gould’s Or- 
lando; the worst, Mr. Ben Greet’s Touchstone. Mr. 
Greet put himself out of the question before he had 
been two minutes on the stage by the profound stroke 
of picking one of Orlando’s sonnets from a tree, and 
reading from it the impromptu burlesque: 


“Tf a hart do lack a hind, 
Let him seek out Rosalind,” etc. 


This was a new reading with a vengeance. He was 
not much more successful as executant than as Shake- 
spearean student. He completely missed the piled-up 
climax of the speech to William, and was, in short, as 
bad a Touchstone as a critic could desire to see. It is 
no disgrace to an actor to be unable to play Touch- 
stone; but why, under these circumstances, and being 
a manager, he should cast himself for it, passes my 


understanding. Mr. Rawson Buckley played Oliver 


414 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


very well, but persisted, as usual, in dressing himself 
smartly, and then describing himself as “a wretched 
ragged man, o’ergrown with hair.” Mr. Gould man- 
aged his part, especially the difficulties of the sham 
courtship with Ganymede, better than I can remember 
having seen it managed before; and some of his lines 
were finely spoken; but he was not Orlando. Orlando’s 
intelligence is the intelligence of the heart: he always 
comes out best an as amiable, strong, manly, hand- 
some, shrewd-enough-to-take-care-of-himself, but safely 
stupid and totally unobservant young man. Now, Mr. 
Gould plays with his head; his intelligence is always 
on the alert; and he is so observant that in spite of his 
many valuable stage qualities he almost disqualifies 
himself as an actor by his draughtsman’s habit of 
watching himself and every one else so keenly and in- 
terestedly that he is more apt to forget his part than to 
forget himself in it. The born actor looks in: Mr. 
Gould looks on. He acts like a good critic, and prob- 
ably represses his tendencies — if he has any — to the 
maudlin self-sympathy, the insane egotism, the bottom- 
less folly, the hysterical imaginative mendacity which 
— with the help of alcohol — make acting easy to some 
men who are for all other purposes the most hopeless 
wastrels. However, I do not object: I recognize the 
fact that the ascendency of the sentimental amorphous 
actor means the aseendency of the sentimental amor- 
phous drama, and that the critical actor, hke Mr. 
Gould, is indispensable to a drama with any brains in 
it. Still, the critical actor need not be also a draughts- 
man actor. I once elaborately explained to Mr. Gould 
a part of which I was myself the author. He paid me 
the closest attention; retired to ponder my utterances ; 
and presently returned with a perfectly accurate and 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 415 


highly characteristic drawing of me, which I shall prob- 
ably never live down. And if I had been Shakespeare 
explaining Orlando, it would have been just the same. 


THE FARCICAL COMEDY OUT- 
BREAK 


The New Baby: a deception in three acts. Adapted by 
Arthur Bourchier from “ Der Rabenvater,”’ by H. F. 
Fischer and J. Jarno. Royalty Theatre, 28 April, 
1896. 

Monsieur de Paris: a play in one act. By Alicia Ram- 
sey and Rudolph de Cordova. Royalty Theatre. 

A Night Out: a farcical comedy in three acts. By 
Georges Feydeau and Maurice Desvalliéres. English 
version. Vaudeville Theatre, 29 April, 1896. 


of monogamy is the existence of its offspring, 

the conventional farcical comedy. ‘The old 
warning, “ Beware how you kiss when you do not 
love,” ought to be paraphrased on the playbills of all 
our lighter theatres as “ Beware how you laugh when 
you do not enjoy.” To laugh without sympathy is a 
ruinous abuse of a noble function; and the degradation 
of any race may be measured by the degree of their 
addiction to it. In its subtler forms it is dying very 
hard: for instance, we find people who would not join 
in the laughter of a crowd of peasants at the village 
idiot, or tolerate the public flogging or pillorying of a 
criminal, booking seats to shout with laughter at a 
farcical comedy, which is, at bottom, the same thing 


()*: of the strongest objections to the institution 


416 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


—namely, the deliberate indulgence of that horrible, 
derisive joy in humiliation and suffering which is the 
beastliest element in human nature. I make these 
portentous observations not by way of breaking a 
butterfly on a wheel, but in order to bring out with 
violent emphasis the distinction between the high and 
the base comedy of errors — between “ Pink Dominos ” 
and “Twelfth Night ’’; or, to illustrate from another 
art, between the caricatures of Leech or Gavarni and 
those which mark the last intolerable stages of the 
degradation of Ally Sloper (who in his original Ross- 
Duval days was not without his merits). To produce 
high art in the theatre, the author must create persons 
whose fortunes we can follow as those of a friend or 
enemy: to produce base laughter, it 1s only necessary 
to turn human beings on to the stage as rats are turned 
into a pit, that they may be worried for the entertain- 
ment of the spectators. Such entertainment is much 
poorer fun than most playgoers suspect. The critic, 
trained to analyze all his artistic sensations, soon gets 
cured of the public’s delusion that everything that 
makes it laugh amuses it. You cannot impose on lim 
by the mere galvanism of the theatre; for all its mani- 
festations, from the brute laughter produced by an 
indecency or a bout of horseplay, to the tricks, familiar 
to old actors, by which worthless explosions of applause 
can be elicited with mechanical certainty at the end of 
a speech or on an exit, become so transparent to him 
that, instead of sharing the enthusiasm they excite, 
he measures merit by their absence. For example, one 
of the admirable points in Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s per- 
formance in “ For the Crown” is the way in which, 
after her recitation of the butterfly poem, she avoids 
the round of clapping which any third-rate actress 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 417 


could get for it— however execrably it might be de- 
livered —by simply finishing it with a swagger and 
waiting for the audience to make a fool of itself. I 
have no doubt that many old stagers regard this as the 
ineptitude of a novice letting a sure point go “ for 
nothing ” or “without a hand.” But everybody re- 
members the recitation; everybody is struck by it; 
everybody is conscious of a spell which would be broken 
by any vulgar attempt to “ bring down the house ”’: the 
commercial result being that people go to see Mrs. 
Campbell, whereas they stay at home when there is 
nothing to be enjoyed at the theatre except the gal- 
vanic tricks of the trade. If it could once be borne 
in upon the mental darkness of most of our public 
performers that the artists who draw best are not those 
who are fondest of making the noisy and hysterical sec- 
tion of the audience interrupt the play — that, in fact, 
applause in the middle of an act is not only discredit- 
able on most occasions to both actor and audience but 
bad business as well — we should get vastly better work 
at the theatres. 

I shall now, perhaps, be understood (if not, no mat- 
ter) when I class the laughter produced by conventional 
farcical comedy as purely galvanic, and the inference 
drawn by the audience that since they are laughmg 
they must be amused or edified or pleased, as a delusion. 
They are really being more or less worried and ex- 
hausted and upset by ill-natured cachinnation; and the 
proof is that they generally leave the theatre tired and 
out of humor with themselves and the world. Lest I 
should err here on the side of over-much righteousness, 
let me hasten to admit that a little galvanism may be 
harmless and even beneficial in its effect on the lungs 
and liver; but three acts of it is too much. I first 


418 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


learnt the weariness of it from ‘* Pink Dominos,” al- 
though that play had an excellent third act; and I 
have been wearied in the same way by every new ver- 
sion. For we have had it again and again under various 
titles. Act I, John Smith’s home; Act II, the rowdy 
restaurant or casino at which John Sinith, in the course 
of his clandestine spree, meets all the members of his 
household, including the schoolboy and the parlormaid ; 
Act III, his house next morning, with the inevitable 
aftermath of the complications of the night before: 
who that has any theatrical experience does not know it 
all by heart? And now here it is again, with a fresh 
coat of paint on it, and as rotten as ever underneath. 

But farcical comedy, like any other stage entertain- 
ment, may become artistically valuable, and even de- 
lightful, through fine execution. ‘ Pink Dominos ” is 
memorable, not for itself, but for the performances of 
Wyndham and Clarke. One remembers the charm of 
Miss Eastlake before she took up the heavy and violent 
work of supporting Mr. Wilson Barrett in tragic 
melodrama; and this generation, contemplating Sir 
Augustus Harris with awe, little suspects how light- 
hearted he was as Harry Greenlanes. Since then, Mr. 
Hawtrey, Mr. Penley, and Miss Lottie Venne have 
managed to keep up the notion that farcical comedies 
are intrinsically amusing with considerable success. 
But the moment an attempt is made to run this sort 
of dramatic work on its own merits, its fundamental 
barrenness and baseness assert themselves and become 
intolerable. ‘Therefore I shall make no pretence of dis- 
cussing as drama the two specimens just produced at 
the Royalty and Vaudeville. Suffice it that the Royalty 
piece, “ The New Baby,” is, from that point of view, 
so far beneath contempt that it never once rises to 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 419 


the point of even suggesting the disgust which its story 
would rouse in any one who took it seriously; whilst 
“A Night Out,” at the Vaudeville, though a master- 
piece of ingenuity and urbanity in comparison to the 
other, is essentially the same as previous nights out, 
from that in “ Pink Dominos ” downwards, and repro- 
duces the stage arrangements of the second act of 
“ Forbidden Fruit ” pretty faithfully. But it 1s note- 
worthy that although “ The New Baby ” includes incest 
in its bewilderments, and one of the central incidents of 
“A Night Out ” is the sudden retirement of a gentle- 
man from a supper party on a pretext which Smollett 
might, and probably would, have employed, they are 
comparatively free from that detestable, furtive lu- 
bricity which was the rule twenty years ago. Farcical 
comedy used to have the manners of a pimp. It is 
now progressing upward towards the morals of Tom 
Jones. 

The question then being one of acting, we had better 
start by making certain allowances: first, for the ab- 
sence from the cast of those light comedians who have 
been specially sucessful in this class of entertainment, 
and, second, for the homeliness of our English attempts 
to volatilize ourselves sufficiently to breathe that fan- 
tastic atmosphere of moral irresponsibility in which 
alone the hero of farcical comedy, like Pierrot or Harle- 
quin, can realize himself fully. On the understanding 
that these difficulties have not been surmounted, one 
may say that “ A Night Out ” is not in the main badly 
acted. Mr. Giddens’s humor, brought into play with 
apparent recklessness, but really with most skilful dis- 
cretion, is irresistible. Mr. Sugden’s Paillard could 
not be improved without overdoing the part; and Mr. 
Wyes has at last succeeded in presenting the peculiar 


420 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


monstrosity he has invented for stage purposes with 
something like a real artistic command of it. Mrs. 
Edmund Phelps’s performance as Madame Pinglet 
(frankly pronounced Pingly) is clever; but there are 
two points in which it might be improved. The busi- 
ness of grovelling on the floor in the third act is shock- 
ingly ugly; and the grimace by which she expresses 
extreme discomfiture is, owing to the turning up of the 
corncrs of the mouth, in effect a smile, not unlike that 
of Bailey Prothero in “The Rogue’s Comedy.” Miss 
Fannie Ward is a determined young lady with plenty 
of assurance, and gumption enough to simulate the not 
very subtle emotions of her part plausibly enough; but 
she is hardly an artist. Miss Pattie Browne, the in- 
evitable maid who seduces the inevitable schoolboy, is 
merely that impossible superstition, the stolidly bounc- 
ing English stage chambermaid. In this, and in such 
details as the crudity with which the sccond waiter 
keeps senselessly shouting Madame Paillard’s name 
with an obvious consciousness of the mischief he is 
doing, not to mention the unnecessary noisiness of 
some of the scenes, one sees the chief fault of the pro- 
duction — puerility of stage management. Mr. Sey- 
mour Hicks has given way to his sense of fun, for- 
getting that a stage manager should have no sense of 
anything except fine art. 

But if the management is immature at the Vaude- 
ville, what is it at the Royalty? Alas! it is hardly 
to be deseribed. Here is Mr. Bourchier, a born actor 
— the likeliest successor, so far, to Mr. Wyndham in 
light comedy — with a theatre of his own and an ex- 
ecllent company, the centre of which is well knit to- 
gether by private as well as artistic ties, and with a 
handsome capital in personal popularity and good 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 421 


wishes to reinforce his cash balance, positively playing 
with his chances like an undergraduate. I protested 
mildly against the way in which “ The Chili Widow ” 
was romped through. No doubt it was jolly; but it 
was not artistic management, and it was hardly acting. 
But “ The New Baby” is worse. Mr. Bourchier has 
not only cast himself for an elderly part which he is 
physically unfit for—a part which might be played 
appropriately by James Lewis —but he treats it as 
a pure lark from beginning to end, rattling along any- 
how as if nothing mattered so long as his good humor 
and high spirits infected the audience sufficiently to 
keep them smiling. In desperation I ask Mr. Bourchier, 
does he really think he is keeping himself up to his work 
at the Royalty? Would any other manager stand from 
him the happy-go-lucky playing he stands from him- 
self with apparent complacency? Would any other 
author allow him to do so much less than his best 
at the very moment when he should be concentrating 
his intensest energy on the consolidation of his posi- 
tion? Does he expect me to pay him any higher com- 
pliment than to admit that his performance is at least 
good enough for the play he has selected? There are 
two well-acted parts in “ The New Baby,” and only 
two. Miss Alice Mansfield, a very clever actress, does 
for the piece what Mr. Giddens does for its rival at 
the Vaudeville; and Mr. W. G. Elhott plays the fiery 
Spaniard as conscientiously and excellently as Mr. 
Bourchier himself would perhaps play it if he were the 
actor and Mr. Elliott the manager. Mr. Blakeley 
almost succeeds by his well-known grimaces and atti- 
tudes in persuading the audience that he has a real 
part. But the play is too foolish to have much chance 
even of a success of folly. 


422 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


The strongest part of the Royalty performance is 
a one-act drama, of exceptional merit as such things 
go, entitled ‘“‘ Monsieur de Paris,” in which Miss Violet 
Vanbrugh, instead of trifling with her talent as she did 
in “ The Chili Widow,” plays a purely romantic part 
with striking effect. The sanguinary ending of the play 
is as mechanical, obvious, and unimaginative as a Chi- 
cago pig-sticking; and Miss Vanbrugh, by overrating 
its value, attempts — what no thoroughly expert ac- 
tress would attempt —a sustained and unvaried cres- 
cendo of forcible expression which only betrays the 
fact that it is her imagination and not her feeling that 
is at work; but the performance proves a great deal 
as to her remarkable qualifications for more serious 
work on the stage. May I add without offence that mm 
the finest diction “crime,” ‘ quick,” “ true,” and 
“heaven ” are not vehemently dissyllabic? 

I never go to celebrations and never write about 
them. What is more, I never eat supper. But I went 
to the Hotel Cecil yesterday week to shake hands with 
Mr. Wyndham, and never succeeded in getting within 
a dozen yards of him. It was an amazing spectacle. 
There we were in our thousands — players and authors 
and critics— geniuses and _ beauties—lost sheep 
strayed from the Philistine fold of respectability — 
the disgraces of our own families —the delight of 
everybody else’s families —the mighty cabotinage of 
London in all its fascination, and all its unlimited ca- 
pacity for flattery, champagne, and asparagus. Nine 
out of every ten guests were players by profession; 
and fully one out of every two hundred and fifty could 
really act — first among these, beyond all challenge, 
Wyndham himself, whose health was proposed by that 
tragic comedian, the Lord Chief Justice. I say noth- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 423 


ing of the peers and politicians and other interlopers: 
a crowd of them can be seen anywhere. I missed Sir 
Henry Irving and Miss Ellen Terry: they, like Mr. 
John Hare, were in America. I also missed Ibsen, 
greatly to my surprise. But it was a wonderful occa- 
sion, for all that — excellently managed and worked 
up, no doubt, but none the less owing the extremity 
of its huge success to its genuineness as a demonstra- 
tion of admiration and regard for Mr. Wyndham. 


HENRY IV 


Henry IV. Part I. Haymarket Theatre, 8 May, 
1896. 


, SHIS is a miserably incompetent world. The 
average doctor is a walking compound of natu- 
ral ignorance and acquired witchcraft, who kills 

your favorite child, wrecks your wife’s health, and 

orders you into habits of nervous dram-drinking before 
you have the courage to send him about his business, 
and take your chance like a gentleman. The average 
lawyer is a nincompoop, who contradicts your perfectly 
sound impressions on notorious points of law, involves 
you in litigation when your case is hopeless, compro- 
mises when your success is certain, and cannot even 
make your will without securing the utter defeat of 
your intentions if any one takes the trouble to dispute 
them. And so on, down to the bootmaker whose boots 
you have to make your tortured feet fit, and the tailor 
who clothes you as if you were a cast-iron hot-water 
apparatus. You imagine that these people have pro- 


424 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


fessions; and you find that what they have is only, in 
the correct old word, their “ mystery ”? — a humbug, like 
all mysteries. And yet, how we help to keep up the 
humbug! I know men of quite exceptional intelligence 
—men so sceptical that they have freed their minds 
from all philosophic and religious dogma, who neverthe- 
less read the “ Lancet” and the “ British Medical 
Journal” from end to end every week as devoutly as 
any superstitious washerwoman ever read “ Zadkiel ” 
or “ Old Moore,” and not only believe it all, but long 
tremblingly for the next symptom that will give them 
an excuse for calling in the medicine man to mistake 
typhoid fever for influenza or paint their tonsils with 
eaustic when their kidneys are out of order. Every 
week they have some joyful tidings for me. Another 
disease has been traced to its germ; an infallible de- 
stroyer of that germ has been discovered; the disease 
has been annihilated. What wonderful triumphs has 
not science enjoyed in my time! Smallpox has been 
made totally impossible; hydrophobia has vanished; 
epilepsy has yielded to the simplest of operations; the 
pangs of angina pectoris have been relieved as if by 
magic; consumption 1s a dream of the past; and now 
there is to be no more diphtheria. Instead of vainly 
seeking, as of old, for a universal remedy, we are the 
proud discoverers of a dozen, and can change with the 
fashion from one to another. Mercury, salicylic acid, 
iodide and bromide of potassium, hashed thyroid, anti- 
pyrine, with lymphs innumerable: there they are, mak- 
ing us all safe and happy until we are unfortunate 
enough to fall down in a fit, or get bitten by a mad 
dog, or fall sick with an ugly rash and a bad pain 
in our backs when we promptly place ourselves in the 
hands of the very gentleman who wrote to the “ Times ” 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 425 


to pledge his honor and reputation, founded on a pyra- 
mid of vivisected rabbits, that such things could never 
happen again. Depend upon it, if Macbeth had killed 
Macduff, he would have gone back to the Witches next 
day to ask their advice as to the best way of dealing 
with Malcolm. . 

It is the same with all the professions. I have other 
friends who are law-mad — who believe that lawyers 
are wise, judges high-minded and impartial, juries in- 
fallible, and codes on the brink of perfection. The 
military-mad and the clergy-mad stalk at large 
throughout the kingdom. Men believe in the profes- 
sions as they believe in ghosts, because they want to 
believe in them. Fact-blindness— the most common 
sort of blindness — and the resolute lying of respect- 
able men, keep up the illusion. No mortal, however 
hard-headed, can feel very safe in his attempts to sift 
the gold of fact and efficiency out of the huge rubbish- 
heap of professionalism. 

My own weakness is neither medicine, nor law, nor 
tailoring, nor any of the respectable departments of 
bogusdom. It is the theatre. The mystery-man who 
takes me in is not the doctor nor the lawyer, but the 
actor. In this column I have prated again and again 
of the mission of the theatre, the art of the actor, of 
his labor, his skill, his knowledge, his importance as 
a civilizing agent, his function as a spiritual doctor. 
Surely I have been in this the most ridiculous of all 
dupes. But before you lay me down in derision, never 
to read my articles again, hear my excuse. There is 
one sort of human accomplishment that cannot be dis- 
missed as a figment of the spectator’s imagination. 
The skill with which a man does that which he has 
done every day for twenty years is no illusion. When 


426 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


the operative at his mule in the cotton-mill pieces the 
broken yarn, when Paderewski at his Erard grand 
plays a sonata, he is not hypnotizing you, or inviting 
you to make-believe. He is actually doing things that 
would be miracles if done by an untrained man. Or 
take him who, with no eye to cotton cloth or the in- 
terpretation of Beethoven, does difficult things for the 
sake of their difficulty, simply as marvels: for instance, 
the acrobat. You cannot deny the reality of his feats. 
His complete physical self-possession, his ambidextrous 
grace, his power of making several deliberate move- 
ments in the space of a pang of terror — as when, for 
example, he will coolly alter the disposition of his body 
at a given moment, whilst he is falling headlong 
through the air: all these accomplishments of his 
really exist, and are by no means the product of the 
imagination of an innocent clergyman, sitting in the 
auditorium with his nose buried in a volume of Shake- 
speare, and ready to take the word of the newspapers 
next day for what is happening on the stage. Now, 
am I to be greatly blamed for having supposed that 
the actor was a genuinely skilled artist like the acrobat, 
only adding to the skilled mastery of his powers of 
movement a mastery of his powers of speech, with an 
ear for verse, a sense of character, a cultivated faculty 
of observation and mimicry, and such higher qualities 
as Nature might throw into the bargain? There were 
great examples to mislead me: Kean was a harlequin 
as well as a Hamlet; Duse’s Camille is positively en- 
thralling as an exhibition of the gymnastics of perfect 
suppleness and grace; and I have seen Salvini come 
out before the curtain to accept a trophy from an 
admirer in a stage box with more art and more fascina- 
tion — the whole thing being carried out in strict ac- 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 427 


cordance with certain rules of his art — than an ordi- 
nary skirt dancer could get into the clumsy imposture 
she calls dancing after two years’ hard practice. Fur- 
ther, it has been a matter of common observation in 
my generation that the burlesque of the Byron-Farnie- 
Reece-Burnand period did not, as it turned out, prove 
a bad training for the people who played in it. No- 
body will contend, I imagine, that the training was 
intellectual: the secret lay m the music, the dancing, 
the marching, the fantastic walks round, the boundless 
scope for physical agility, the premium which the very 
barrenness and vulgarity of the entertainment placed 
on personal feats and on mimicry. Even that terrible 
stage calamity, the stock actor of the old régime, learnt 
something more from the Christmas pantomime than 
he would have known without it. 

I plead then that acting is potentially an artistic 
profession, and that by training and practice a person 
can qualify himself or herself to come to a manager 
or author and say, “ Within the limits imposed by my 
age and sex, I can do all the ordinary work of the 
stage with perfect certainty. I know my vowels and 
consonants as a phonetic expert, and can speak so as 
to arrest the attention of the audience whenever I open 
my mouth, forcibly, delicately, roughly, smoothly, 
prettily, harshly, authoritatively, submissively, but 
always artistically, just as you want it. I can sit, 
stand, fall, get up, walk, dance, and otherwise use my 
body with the complete command of it that marks the 
physical artist.” An actor might know all this, and 
yet, for want of the power to interpret an author’s 
text and invent the appropriate physical expression 
for it, never, without coaching, get beyond Rosen- 
crantz or Seyton. It is, therefore, only the minimum 


428 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


qualification of a skilled stage hand; and if an actor 
is not that, then he is merely a stage-struck unskilled 
laborer or handy man, and his “ conceptions ” of Ibsen 
or Shakespeare are mere impertinences. I naturally 
concluded that the minimum was in force, and acting 
a real profession. Alas! that only proves that my 
desire and hope got the better of my observation — 
my imagination of my experience. 

However, I am cured now. It is all a delusion: 
there is no profession, no art, no skill about the busi- 
ness at all. We have no actors: we have only authors, 
and not many of them. When Mendelssohn composed 
“Son and Stranger ” for an amateur performance, he 
found that the bass could only sing one note. So he 
wrote the bass part all on that one note; and when 
it came to the fateful night, the bass failed even at 
that. Our authors do as Mendelssohn did. They find 
that the actors have only one note, or perhaps, if they 
are very clever, half a dozen. So their parts are con- 
fined to these notes, often with the same result as in 
Mendelssohn’s case. If you doubt me, go and see 
“Henry IV” at the Haymarket. It is as good work 
as our stage can do; but the man who says that it 
is skilled work has neither eyes nor ears; the man who 
mistakes it for intelligent work has no brains; the 
man who finds it even good fun may be capable of 
Christy Minstrelsy but not of Shakespeare. Every- 
thing that charm of style, rich humor, and vivid and 
natural characterization can do for a play are badly 
wanted by ‘‘ Henry IV,” which has neither the romantic 
beauty of Shakespeare’s earlier plays nor the tragic 
greatness of the later ones. One can hardly forgive 
Shakespeare quite for the worldly phase in which he 
tried to thrust such a Jingo hero as his Harry V 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 429 


down our throats. The combination of conventional 
propriety and brute masterfulness in his public ca- 
pacity with a low-lived blackguardism in his private 
tastes is not a pleasant one. No doubt he is true to 
nature as a picture of what is by no means uncommon 
in English society, an able young Philistine inheriting 
high position and authority, which he holds on to and 
goes through with by keeping a tight grip on his 
conventional and legal advantages, but who would have 
been quite in his place if he had been born a game- 
keeper or a farmer. We do not in the first part of 
“Henry IV” see Harry sending Mrs. Quickly and 
Doll Tearsheet to the whipping-post, or handing over 
Falstaff to the Lord Chief Justice with a sanctimonious 
lecture; but he repeatedly makes it clear that he will 
turn on them later on, and that his self-indulgent good- 
fellowship with them is consciously and deliberately 
treacherous. His popularity, therefore, is like that 
of a prizefighter: nobody feels for him as for Romeo 
or Hamlet. Hotspur, too, though he is stimulating 
as ginger cordial is stimulating, is hardly better than 
his horse; and King Bolingbroke, preoccupied with his 
crown exactly as a miser is preoccupied with his money, 
is equally useless as a refuge for our affections, which 
are thus thrown back undivided on Falstaff, the most 
human person in the play, but none the less a besotted 
and disgusting old wretch. And there is neither any 
subtlety nor (for Shakespeare) much poetry in the 
presentation of all these characters. They are labelled 
and described and insisted upon with the roughest di- 
rectness; and their reality and their humor can alone 
save them from the unpopularity of their unlovableness 
and the tedium of their obviousness. Fortunately, they 
offer capital opportunities for interesting acting. 


430 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Bolingbroke’s long discourse to his son on the means 
by which he struck the imagination and enlisted the 
snobbery of the English people gives the actor a 
chance comparable to the crafty early scenes in 
‘“ Richelieu.” Prince Hal’s humor is seasoned with 
sportsmanlike cruelty and the imsolence of conscious 
mastery and contempt to the point of occasionally mak- 
ing one shudder. Hotspur is full of energy; and Fal- 
staff is, of course, an unrivalled part for the right sort 
of comedian. Well acted, then, the play is a good 
one in spite of there not being a single tear in it. Ill 
acted — O heavens! 

Of the four leading parts, the easiest — Hotspur — 
becomes pre-eminent at the Haymarket, not so much by 
Mr. Lewis Waller’s superiority to the rest as by their 
inferiority to him. Some of the things he did were 
astonishing in an actor of his rank. At the end of 
each of his first vehement speeches, he strode right 
down the stage and across to the prompt side of the 
proscenium on the frankest barnstorming principles, 
repeating this absurd “cross”? —a well-known con- 
vention of the booth for catching applause — three 
times, step for step, without a pretence of any dra- 
matic motive. In the camp scene before the battle of 
Shrewsbury, he did just what I blamed Miss Violet 
Vanbrugh for trying to do in “ Monsieur de Paris”: 
that is, to carry through a long crescendo of excitement 
by main force after beginning fortissimo. Would it be 
too farfetched to recommend Mr. Waller to study how 
Mozart, in rushing an operatic movement to a spirited 
conclusion, knew how to make it, when apparently al- 
ready at its utmost, seem to bound forward by a sudden 
pianissimo and lightsome change of step, the speed and 
force of the execution being actually reduced instead of 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 481 


intensified by the change? Such skilled, resourceful 
husbandry is the secret of all effects of this kind; and 
it 1s in the entire absence of such husbandry that Mr. 
Waller showed how our miserable theatre has left him 
still a novice for the purposes of a part which he is 
fully equipped by nature to play with most brilliant suc- 
cess, and which he did play very strikingly, considering 
he was not in the least sure how to set about it, and 
hardly dared to stop blazing away at full pitch for an 
instant lest the part should drop flat on the boards. 
Mr. Mollison presented us with an assortment of 
effects, and tones, and poses which had no reference, 
as far as I could discover, to the part of Bolingbroke 
at any single point. I did not catch a glimpse of the 
character from one end of his performance to the 
other, and so must conclude that Shakespeare has 
failed to convey his intention to him. Mr. Gillmore’s 
way of playing Hal was as bad as the traditional way 
of playing Sheridan. He rattled and swaggered and 
roystered, and followed every sentence with a forced 
explosion of mirthless laughter, evidently believing that, 
as Prince Hal was reputed to be a humorous character, 
it was his business to laugh at him. Like most of his 
colleagues, he became more tolerable in the plain sailing 
of the battle scene, where the parts lose their indi- 
viduality in the general warlike excitement, and an 
energetic display of the commonest sort of emotion 
suffices. Mr. Tree only wants one thing to make him 
an excellent Falstaff, and that is to get born over 
again as unlike himself as possible. No doubt, in the 
course of a month or two, when he begins to pick up a 
few of the lines of the part, he will improve on his 
first effort; but he will never be even a moderately 
good Falstaff. The basket-work figure, as expression- 


482 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


less as that of a Jack in the Green; the face, with 
the pathetic wandering eye of Captain Swift belymg 
such suggestion of character as the lifeless mask of 
paint and hair can give; the voice, coarsened, vulgar- 
ized, and falsified without being enriched or colored; 
the hopeless efforts of the romantic imaginative actor, 
touching only in unhappy parts, to play the comedian 
by dint of mechanical horseplay: all that is hopeless, 
irremediable. Mr. Tree might as well try to play 
Juliet; and if he were wise he would hand over his 
part and his breadbasket to Mr. Lionel Brough, whose 
Bardolph has the true comic force which Mr. Tree 
never attains for a moment. 

Two ideas have been borrowed from the last London 
revival of “ Henry V” by Mr. Coleman at the Queen’s 
Theatre in Long Acre. One is the motionless battle 
tableau, which is only Mr. Coleman’s Agincourt over 
again, and which might just as well be cut out of 
cardboard. The other is the casting of Miss Kate 
Phillips for Mrs. Quickly. As Mrs. Quickly is plainly 
a slovenly, greasy, Gampish old creature, and Miss 
Phillips is unalterably trim, smart, and bright, a worse 
choice could not have been made. One would like to 
have seen Miss Mansfield in the part. Mrs. Tree, as 
Lady Percy, did what I have never seen her do before: 
that is, played her part stupidly. The laws of nature 
seem to be suspended when Shakespeare is in ques- 
tion. A Lady Percy who is sentimentally affection- 
ate, who recites her remonstrance with Percy in the 
vein of Clarence’s dream in “ Richard III,” and 
who comes on the stage to share the applause elicited 
by the combats in the battle of Shrewsbury, only 
makes me rub my eyes and wonder whether I am 
dreaming. 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 433 
Besides Mr. Lionel Brough and Mr. Lewis Waller, 


there were three performers who came off with credit. 
Mr. Holman Clark played Glendower like a reasonable 
man who could read a Shakespearean play and under- 
stand it — a most exceptional achievement in his pro- 
fession, as it appears. Mr. D. J. Williams, who played 
William in “ As You Like It ” the other day at the 
Metropole, and played him well, was a Smike-like and 
effective Francis; and Miss Marion Evans was a most 
musical Lady Mortimer, both in her Welsh song and 
Welsh speech. 

The chief merit of the production is that the play 
has been accepted from Shakespeare mainly as he 
wrote it. There are cuts, of course, the worst of them 
being the sacrifice of the nocturnal innyard scene, a 
mutilation which takes the reality and country mid- 
night freshness from the Gadshill robbery, and reduces 
it to a vapid interlude of horseplay. But the object 
of these cuts is to save time: there is no alteration or 
hotchpotch, and consequently no suspicion of any at- 
tempt to demonstrate the superiority of the manager’s 
taste and judgment to Shakespeare’s in the Daly 
fashion. This ought to pass as a matter of course; 
but as things are at present it must be acknowledged 
as highly honorable to Mr. Tree. However, it is not 
my cue just now to pay Mr. Tree compliments. His 
tours de force in the art of make-up do not impose on 
me: any man can get into a wicker barrel and pretend 
to be Falstaff, or put on a false nose and call himself 
Svengali. Such tricks may very well be left to the 
music-halls: they are altogether unworthy of an artist 
of Mr. Tree’s pretensions. When he returns to the 
serious pursuit of his art by playing a part into which 
he can sincerely enter without disguise or mechanical 


434 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


denaturalization, may I be there to see! Until then 
let him guard the Haymarket doors against me; for 
I like him best when he is most himself. 


RESURRECTION PIE 


Jo: a drama in three acts, adapted from Charles 
Dickens’s ‘‘ Bleak House.” By J. P. Burnett. (A 
Revival.) Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, 14 May, 1896. 
The Matchmaker: a new comedy in four acts. By Clo 
Graves and Gertrude Kingston. Shaftesbury Theatre, 
9 May, 1896. 

Rosemary: a new play in four acts. By Louis N. 
Parker and Murray Carson. Criterion Theatre, 16 
May, 1896. 


I suppose. In the most eligible places we get 

suddenly smitten with a hankering to take an- 
other look at some dull district where we were born; 
or in the British Museum Library we turn from the 
treasures of literature and abuse the services of the 
staff to get out some trumpery story-book that we 
read in the nursery; or we suddenly lapse, between the 
acts of a Wagnerian performance, into a longing 
curiosity to hear “I Puritani” or “ Don Pasquale ” 
once more. Fortunately most of these whims cost too 
much to be carried very far. We can afford to make 
a sentimental journey, or to hunt up an old book, but 
not to produce an old opera or an old play. There 
is only one man among us who is an exception to this 
rule. That man is Sir Augustus Harris. And what 
a resurrectionist he is! When my theme was music, 


, ; \HERE is a strain of resurrectionism in all of us, 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 435 


I used egotistically to suspect him of a fiendish fancy 
for tormenting me personally; for in the very middle 
of a phase of advanced operatic activity, with ‘ Die 
Meistersinger ” figuring in the repertory with a com- 
paratively venerable air beside a group of the most 
modern Italian and French works, he would suddenly 
stretch out his imperial hand; drag some appalling 
tenor from I know not what limbo of street-piano pa- 
drones, penny-icemen, and broken choristers; set the 
wretch to bleat “ Ah si, ben mio,” and roar “ Di quella 
pira” just once; and then snatch him for ever from 
the ken of a coldly astonished London season, leaving 
no trace of his adventure except my own infuriated 
protests and an inscrutable smile on the countenance 
of the impresario. That smile may have meant senti- 
mental memories of auld lang syne, or it may have 
meant such derision as a wise man allows himself when 
he has given a witty lesson to a foolish generation — I 
never could tell; but before I had recovered my temper 
and settled down to “ Die Meistersinger ”’ and the rest, 
there would come along an obsolete seventeen-stone 
prima donna who could sing “‘O mio Fernando,” and 
get through regular old-fashioned arias with florid 
cabalettas at the ends of them. Immediately “La 
Favorita ” would be dug up to rattle its skeleton for 
a night on the shuddering boards; and again I would 
go home, boiling with rage, to rack my brains for 
every extremity of sarcastic or indignant remonstrance. 
And again the impresario would smile inscrutably. 
Finally, having done my worst, I abandoned the criti- 
cism of music and devoted myself to the drama. Yet 
here again I meet the resurrectionist impresario as 
resurrectionist manager; and again I am unable, for 
the life of me, to guess whether he is a sentimentalist 


436 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


turning to ses premiéres amours, or a preceptor giving 
those of us who find fault lightly with hie modern 
achievements a stern object lesson in the strides he has 
had to make to get away from a ridiculous and over- 
rated past. 

At some remote date which I have not precisely as- 
certained — somewhere between the drying of the Flood 
and the advent of Ibsen — “ Bleak House ” shared the 
fate of most of Dickens’s novels in being “ adapted to 
the stage.” The absurdity of the process is hardly to 
be described, so atrociously had these masterpieces to 
be degraded to bring them within the competence of the 
theatre; but the thing was done somehow; and the 
Artful Dodger, Smike, Micawber, Peggotty and Jo 
were born again as “ famous impersonations.” I am 
less versed in these matters than some of our older 
critics; but it has been my fate at one time or an- 
other to witness performances founded on “ Pickwick,” 
“Oliver Twist,” ‘ Dombey and Son,” and ‘ David 
Copperfield.” The fame of other adaptations of 
Dickens reached me, notably that of ‘‘ Bleak House,” 
with Miss Jennie Lee as the crossing-sweeper; but I 
never saw “ Jo ” until the other night, when Sir Augus- 
tus revived it at Drury Lane, just as he might have 
revived “ Semiramide ” at Covent Garden. The revival 
is under the direction of the author of the adaptation, 
Mr. J. P. Burnett, who has evidently conducted it with 
the strictest fidelity to its traditions; so that we can 
now sce for a few nights what stage work was like in 
the days when Dickens, the greatest English master 
of pathetic and humorous character presentation our 
century has produced, did not write for the theatre. 
And truly the spectacle is an astonishing one, though 
I well remember when its most grotesque features were 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 437 


in the height of the melodramatic fashion. What will 
the stage sentimentalities on which I drop the tear of 
sensibility to-day seem like a quarter of a century 
hence, I wonder! 

One facility offered to the stage by Dickens is a de- 
scription of the persons of the drama so vivid and pre- 
cise that no actor with the faintest sense of character 
could mistake the sort of figure he has to present, even 
without the drawings of Browne and Barnard to help 
him out. Yet each attempt only proves that most of 
our actors either have no character sense or else have 
never read Dickens. The Drury Lane revival has 
plenty of examples of this. One would suppose that 
Mr. Snagsby, with his nervous cough, his diffidence, 
his timid delicacy, and his minimizing formula of “ not 
to put too fine a point on it,” could hardly be con- 
fused with a broadly comic cheesemonger out of a 
harlequinade, nor the oily Chadband in any extremity 
of misunderstanding be presented as a loose-limbed 
acrobat of the Vokes-Girard type. Imagine the poor 
pathetically ridiculous Guster not only condemned to 
mere knock-about buffoonery, but actually made to fall 
down in a comic epileptic fit on the stage! Bucket 
has his psychology considerably complicated by the 
fact that the author has rolled him up with Mr. Jarn- 
dyce and the Cook’s Court policeman; so that there are 
three characters in one person, a trinitarian expedient 
which presents an absolutely insoluble problem to the 
actor. As to Mr. Guppy, he is not within a thousand 
miles of being himself. What Jobling-Weevle, and 
Smallweed, and Miss Flite, and George and the rest 
would have been like if they had been included in the 
adaptation can only be guessed with a qualm. Literary 
criticism was more apt to remonstrate with Dickens 


438 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


for caricature than to mistrust his touch as too subtle, 
and his outlines as too elusive, for the man in the street 
to appreciate. On the stage, one perceives, Dickens 
was impossible because he was infinitely too poetic, too 
profound, too serious, too natural in his presentment 
of things — in a word, too dramatic for the theatre of 
his day. Not that I shall allow any one to persuade 
me that “ Jo” was ever anything more than third-rate 
work at any period of our stage history; but it must 
have been much more highly esteemed when it was first 
perpetrated than it is now, even by an audience invited 
at “cheap summer prices,” and so carelessly catered 
for, that in the scene in which Guppy explains to 
Esther Summerson that what she takes for smoke is 
a London fog, we are treated to the most brilliantly 
sunshiny front cloth the scene-dock of Drury Lane 
affords. 

All that can be said for Miss Jennie Lee’s “ Jo” 
nowadays is that if the part had been left between 
herself and Dickens, something credible and genuinely 
moving might have come of it. But Mr. Burnett has 
carefully laid out his lines and stage business for the 
crudest and falsest stage pathos and stage facetious- 
ness. Jo is one moment a cheeky street arab, and, the 
next, is directly expressing, to slow music, not the 
darkened ideas of Jo, but Mr. Burnett’s version of the 
compassionate horror roused in the social and political 
consciousness of Dickens by the case of Jo and his 
fellow-outcasts. Dickens himself is not wholly guilt- 
less of this: in the novel one or two of Jo’s speeches 
are at bottom conscious social criticisms; but it is not 
the business of the dramatist to develop a couple of 
undramatic slips in a novel into a main feature of the 


leading part in a play. Lady Dedlock, no longer 





DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 4389 


bored, but fearfully and tragically serious in her crino- 
line and flounces (wild anachronisms, surely, if the 
play is to be dated by the costumes of Tulkinghorn, 
Bucket, and Snagsby), 1s quite worth seeing, especially 
on her visit to the graveyard, where she combines a 
now ludicrously old-fashioned sort of distressed heroine 
business with a good deal of the Ghost in Hamlet, old 
style. How Miss Alma Stanley has contrived to re- 
cover the trick of a vanished stage mode so cleverly, 
and to keep her countenance meanwhile, I know not. 
But she does it with wonderful success; and I hope 
she will never do it again. Mrs. Rouncewell, excellently 
played by Miss Fanny Robertson, is called Mrs. 
Rouncell in the playbill; and the number of news- 
paper notices in which this blunder is reproduced may 
be taken as the number of critics who have never read 
** Bleak House.” 

Perhaps, now I come to think of it, the “ Jo ” enter- 
prise is not Sir Augustus Harris’s at all, but only Mr. 
Burnett’s. Whether or no, I prefer “ La Favorita.” 

The untimely end of “ The Matchmaker ” at the 
Shaftesbury rather weakens any interest that may 
attach to my opinion of it. In its combination of 
cynicism as to the society represented by the fashion- 
able marriage market, and sentiment as to pet indi- 
viduals, with a humorousness that is nothing if not 
naughty, it is thoroughly characteristic of the phase 
of social development represented by the two ladies — 
a London actress and a London journalist respectively 
— to whose pens we owe it. This is as much as to say 
that “ The Matchmaker ” was as sincere as its authors 
could make it without dropping the usual affectation 
of taking life farcically; and as they have some bright 
dramatic talent between them, the play, though tacked 


440 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


together anyhow, and built on the sandiest of founda- 
tions, might, in a summer theatre at reasonable prices, 
have done very well, though of course at the Shaftes- 
bury in May, with all the comfortable seats costing 
half-a-guinea or six or seven shillings, no great success 
was possible. Two scenes, the pathetic one in the first 
act between Miss Lena Ashwell and Mr. Lewis Waller, 
and the comic one in the third between Mr. Waller and 
Miss Beatrice Ferrar, will be remembered when some 
more successful plays are forgotten. It was partic- 
ularly interesting to see how sympathetically Mr. 
Waller responded to the note of genuine pathos in the 
first scene, although in “ A Woman’s Reason” and 
“The Sin of St. Hulda ” he hardly succeeded in even 
pretending to respond to the conventional demands of 
the pretentious but unreal despair piled up for him in 
these works. The effect was completed by the playing 
of Miss Ashwell, the touching quality of whose acting, 
both in comedy and sentiment, 1s now finding the cul- 
tivated artistic expression it lacked in former seasons. 
As to “ Rosemary,” at the Criterion, there is very 
little to be said; for though it is a pleasant piece of 
storytelling, it does not really supply a motive for the 
very remarkable display of acting which Mr. Wynd- 
ham imposes on it, and to which it owes its success. 
His performance may almost be called acting in the 
abstract, like those mock dialogues in which a couple 
of amateur comedians amuse a drawing-room by simply 
bandying the letters of the alphabet to and fro with 
varying expressions. It is quite possible to be most 
powerfully affected by an emotional demonstration of 
which the cause is hidden: indeed, I have known a case 
in which an actress, off the stage, gave such poignant 
expression to her feelings that a visitor came to the 








DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 441 


conclusion that she had lost her favorite child, whereas 
the actual provocation, as it turned out, was the ex- 
hibition of somebody else’s name on a poster in letters 
an inch longer than hers. If a foreigner were to enter 
the Criterion half way through the third act of 
“Rosemary,” he would be greatly struck by Mr. 
Wyndham’s acting; but if he were asked to guess the 
nature of Sir Jasper Thorndyke’s grief, he would cer- 
tainly suggest something much more serious than the 
disappointment of a man of forty at being unable to 
marry a pretty young girl, quite a stranger to him, 
on whose wedding he had just stumbled. The truth 
is that the play has one pervading defect. It. is en- 
gaging, humane, fanciful, well written, refined, humor- 
ous according to a somewhat literary conception of 
humor, and full of happy reminiscent touches and a 
pardonable Dickens worship; but it is continuously 
silly; and in the hands of actors who were no better 
than their parts it would, I suspect, act very vapidly 
indeed. In the last act—-a nonogenarian monologue 
—the lines, though no doubt very nice and sympa- 
thetic, are dramatically aimless; and although I am 
quite aware that we shall never get the drama out of 
its present rut until we learn to dispense on occasion 
with dramatic aim in this sense, and allow feeling to 
flow without perpetually working up to points and 
situations, yet that sort of freedom must be con- 
quered, not begged — a feat that can hardly be achieved 
in an openly and shamelessly old-fashioned play like 
‘“Rosemary.” However, I will not pretend that I 
found it tedious; indeed, Mr. Wyndham entertained 
me better than I expected, considering that the art of 
senile make-up, in which Mr. Hare wasted half his 
career, is to me the most transparent and futile of 


442 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


impostures. For the rest, there are half a dozen pleas- 
ant and popular artists in half a dozen pleasant and 
popular — but always silly — parts; and the manage- 
ment is admirable, as it always is at the Criterion. 


G. B. S. ON CLEMENT SCOTT 


From “ The Bells’ to “ King Arthur”: a critical rec- 
ord of the first-night productions at the Lyceum 
Theatre from 1871 to 1895. By Clement Scott. Lon- 
don: John Macqueen. 1896. 

Shaw v. Shakespeare and Others: an article by W. A. 
(Mr. William Archer) in the current number of “ The 
World.” 


30 May, 1896. 
M: CLEMENT SCOTT is not the first of the 


great dramatic critics; but he is the first of 

the great dramatic reporters. Other men may 
have hurried from the theatre to the newspaper office 
to prepare, red hot, a notice of the night’s performance 
for the morning’s paper; but nobody did it before 
him with the knowledge that the notice was awaited by 
a vast body of readers conscious of his personality and 
anxious to hear his opinion, and that the editor must 
respect it, and the subeditor reserve space for it, as 
the most important feature of the paper. This strong 
position Mr. Scott has made for himself. His oppor- 
tunity has of course been made by circumstances — by 
the growth of mammoth newspapers like the “ Daily 
Telegraph,” the multiplication of theatres, and the 
spread of interest in them; but it has not been made 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 443 


for Mr. Scott more than for his competitors; and the 
fact that he alone has seized it and made the most of 
it in a metropolis where every adult is eager to do his 
work for nothing but the honor and glory and the 
invitations to first nights, proves, you may depend on 
it, that his qualifications for the work are altogether 
extraordinary. 

The main secret of Mr. Scott’s popularity is that he 
is above all a sympathetic critic. His susceptibility to 
the direct expression of human feeling is so strong that 
he can write with positive passion about an exhibition 
of it which elicits from his colleagues only some stale, 
weary compliment in the last sentence of a conventional 
report, or, at best, some clever circumlocutory dis- 
cussion of the philosophy of the piece. Whoever has 
been through the experience of discussing criticism 
with a thorough, perfect, and entire Ass, has been told 
that criticism should above all things be free from 
personal feeling. ‘The excellence of Mr. Scott’s criti- 
cisms lies in their integrity as expressions of the warm- 
est personal feeling and nothing else. They are alive: 
their admiration is sincere and moving: their resent- 
ment is angry and genuine. He may be sometimes 
maudlin on the one hand, sometimes unjust, unreason- 
able, violent, and even ridiculous on the other; but 
he has never lost an inch of ground by that, any more 
than other critics have ever gained an inch by a cau- 
tious, cold, fastidious avoidance of the qualities of 
which such faults are the excesses. Our actors and 
actresses feel the thorough humanity of his relation 
to them; and they commonly say — except in those 
gusts of fury at some unfavorable notice in which they 
announce that they make it a rule never to read criti- 
cisms at all——that they would rather be “ slated ” by 


444 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


Mr. Scott than praised by colder hands. By colder 
hands they generally mean Mr. William Archer, who ~ 
has made himself as eminent as Mr. Scott, and comple- 
mentary and antidotal to him, at the opposite pole of 
contemporary dramatic criticism. The public believes 
in Mr. Scott because he interprets the plays by feeling 
with the actor or author — generally more, perhaps, 
with the actor than the author — and giving his feel- 
ing unrestrained expression in his notices. An average 
young University graduate would hang himself sooner 
than wear his heart on his sleeve before the world as 
Mr. Scott does. And that is just why the average 
young University graduate never interests any one in 
his critical remarks. He has been trained to do noth- 
ing that could possibly involve error, failure, self-asser- 
tion, or ridicule; and the results of this genteelly 
negative policy are about as valuable as those which 
might be expected by a person who should enter for a 
swimming race with a determination to do nothing that 
could possibly expose to the risk of getting wet. Mr. 
Scott, in spite of his public school education, is hap- 
pily not that sort of person. He understands the value 
of Lassalle’s dictum that “ History forgives mistakes 
and failures, but not want of conviction.” 

Now for Mr. Scott’s shortcomings. The most ami- 
able of them is a desire to give pleasure and gain 
affectionate goodwill. This, in the absence of any 
provocation to the contrary, guarantees to everybody, 
from Sir Henry Irving down to the most friendless 
novice thirsting for a little encouragement, a flatter- 
ing word or two in the “ Daily Telegraph.” No doubt 
he is very often helpful with judicious encouragement ; 
but he is occasionally shameless in his gratuitous kind- 
liness. This might not do any harm if he could always 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 445 


be depended on to be annoyed by bad work; but un- 
fortunately this is not the case. His extraordinary 
susceptibility is, as I advisedly described it, a suscep- 
tibility to the direct expression of human feeling, and to 
that alone. Interpose any medium between him and 
the moving, uttering, visible human creature, and he is 
insulated at once. It may be the medium of music; it 
may be painting; it may even be the reflective thought 
inspired by passion instead of the direct instinctive 
ery of the passion itself: no matter: the moment the 
substitution is effected Mr. Scott loses his distinction; 
writes like any Philistine citizen of ordinary artistic 
tastes; and is crowed over by every whippersnapper in 
his profession whose eyes and ears and powers of ab- 
stract thinking have been trained a little by practice 
on the outside of the arts, and by an academic course 
of philosophy. In this collection of his Lyceum criti- 
cisms we find him brought face to face with the re- 
markable development of the pictorial side of stage 
art effected by Mr. Comyns Carr when he succeeded in 
bringing the genius of Burne-Jones, the greatest deco- 
rative artist of his time, to bear on the production of 
“ King Arthur.” Mr. Scott, instead of being delighted 
with the result, was simply incommoded and disturbed 
by the change in the accustomed arrangements. He 
complained that King Arthur wore black armor instead 
of looking like Mr. Henry Neville dressed in a roast- 
ing-jack and a flaxen wig; and he was scandalized at 
the knights having their hair cut. ‘ Where,” he asks, 
“is the fair hair, where the robes, where the drapery, 
where the air of dignity and distinction, in this tight- 
fitting, black, tin armor? An actor of the highest dis- 
tinction has to work desperately hard to counteract 
the impression for which he is not in the least respon- 


446 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


sible. It was decided — we know not for what reason — 
that all the principal actors in this play should wear 
their own hair, Bond Street cut. Never was there a 
play where assumed hair seemed to be more imperative.” 

Again, when Mr. Scott touches on the subject of 
music, he distinguishes between “ melody *” and “ classi- 
cal music,” and is so deeply depressed by sonata form 
that even the slow movement from Raff’s *‘ Im Walde ” 
symphony struck him as an unpardonably dismal busi- 
ness when Herr Armbruster played it at the Lyceum 
on the first might of “ Michael.” He also complains 
because Gounod’s music 1s not used in the Lyceum 
** Faust.” Painting and music seem to affect his imagi- 
nation as ruins affected the imagination of Sir Walter 
Scott — that is, by setting him thinking of something 
else. His criticism of all stage effects, scenic or per- 
sonal, which appeal to the cultivated intelligence of 
the eye and ear, instead of to the heart, is quite 
commonplace. 

When I say that Mr. Scott is also unable to recog- 
nize a feeling when it is presented to him in the form 
of a thought — unless of course that thought has been 
so long associated with it that the distinction between 
them has vanished, and the utterance of the thought 
has become the natural expression of the feeling —I 
touch the disability which has brought him into con- 
flict with the later developments of the drama. Like 
all energetic spirits, he was a pioneer at first, fighting 
for the return to nature in Robertson’s plays against 
the stagey stuff which he found in possession of the 
theatre. Since that time the unresting march of evo- 
lution has brought us past Robertson. Our feeling 
has developed and put new thoughts into our heads; 
and our brains have developed and interpreted our 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 447 


feelings to us more critically. Ideas which were for- 
merly only conceived by men of genius like Ibsen, or 
intensely energetic spirits like Nietzsche, are freely 
used by dramatists like Sudermann, and are beginning 
to creep into quite ordinary plays, just as I can 
remember the pet discords of Schumann and Wagner 
beginning to creep into the music-hall after a period of 
fashionable novelty in the drawing-room. When Ib- 
sen’s “Ghosts ” forced the old ideas to take up the 
challenge of the new, Mr. Scott was the only critic 
whose attack on Ibsen was really memorable. In the 
ranks which he led there was plenty of elderly peevish- 
hess and envious disparagement, virtuous indignation 
and vicious scurrility, with the usual quantity of time- 
serving caution among the more considerate; but Mr. 
Scott alone, looking neither forward nor backward, 
gave utterance to his horror like a man wounded to 
the quick in his religion, his affections, his enthusiasms 
—in the deepest part of him. I greatly doubt 
whether to this day he has any adequate conception 
of the way in which he pitched into us who were on the 
other side during those moments when he was persuaded 
that we were filthy-minded traffickers in mere abomina- 
tion. But he came off with the advantage of the 
doughty fighter who lays on with conviction: he had 
not only the excitement of the combat and the satis- 
faction of making his quarterstaff ring on the heads of 
his adversaries, but he sowed no harvest of malice, 
rather establishing on us the claim of an old opponent, 
always a strong claim in a free country. The incident 
was the more curious because I am persuaded that if 
the feeling that is at the bottom of “ Ghosts” were 
presented dramatically as a simple and direct plea for 
the right of a man of affectionate, easy, convivial tem- 


448 DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 


perament to live a congenial life, instead of skulking 
into the kitchen after the housemaid, and stealing a 
morsel of pleasure in the byways of drink and disease 
when his conscientiously conventional wife and her 
spiritual adviser were not looking, Mr. Scott would be 
one of its most merciful critics. But Mr. Scott is 
not a thinker: whatever question you raise with him 
you must raise as a question of conduct, which is a 
matter of feeling, and not of creed, which is a matter 
of intellectual order. The notion that when conduct 
conflicts with creed, the question as to which of the 
two is in the wrong is an open one — that it is not 
alone humanity that is constantly on its trial, but the 
ethical, political, and religious systems that claim 
implicit obedience from humanity —that a deliberate 
violation of these systems may be, not a weakness to be 
pitied and pardoned, but an assertion of human worth 
to be championed and carried to victory in the teeth 
of all constitutions, churches, principles, and ideals 
whatsoever: this, which explains all that is peculiar 
in the attitude of the modern movement, especially in 
dramatic poetry, has no meaning for Mr. Scott. He 
will not, when the time comes, be an enemy of the 
drama which tacitly assumes it: his sympathy will 
secure him against that; but the drama which asserts 
and argues it — which is polemical rather than instinc- 
tive in its poignancy — will never be tolerated by him. 
I need not say that a volume of criticisms dealing 
with Lyceum productions exclusively does not cover 
those newly opened regions in which the steadiness of 
Mr. Scott’s footing is doubtful. The book is full of 
old drawings by Mr. Barnard, which, however, are sur- 
passed in delicacy, charm, and fidelity by the newer 
ones from the hand of Mr. Partridge (Mr. Bernard 


DRAMATIC OPINIONS AND ESSAYS 449 


Gould), and photographic portraits, among which I 
miss that of Mr. Scott himself. Perhaps the few 
notes I have made above on my fellow-critic may help 
to supply the deficiency. For form’s sake, I will add 
just this ghost of a criticism on a passage in the book. 
When “ Olivia ” was revived at the Lyceum, Mr. Scott 
was so much touched by the point at which the Vicar, 
trying to lecture Olivia for her wickedness, breaks 
down and clasps her in his arms (who does not remem- 
ber Miss Terry’s head dropping as she took the atti- 
tude of the reproved child?), that he records with en- 
thusiasm the astonishment and delight of the house, 
adding, “‘ As regards acting, it was a moment of true 
inspiration, a masterpiece of invention.” But now, in 
cold blood, Mr. Scott will agree with me, I think, that 
the invention is clearly the auther’s, and that the 
original Vicar produced the same effect. Indeed, to 
my mind, he produced it better than Sir Henry Irving, 
whose embrace I thought too loverlike. Mr. Hermann 
Vezin, a less passionate actor, was for that very reason 
a more old-fashionedly fatherly Dr. Primrose than his 
eminent successor. 

Mr. Archer’s article in the “ World ” is an elaborate 
demonstration that my opinion of “ Henry IV ” at the 
Haymarket is not a criticism, but a purely theoretic 
deduction from my race, my diet, my politics — in 
short, my nature and environment. And he argues that 
it is a monstrous injustice that Mr. Beerbohm Tree 
should be made to suffer for my nature and environ- 
ment. What outrageous nonsense! Besides, Mr. Tree 
is infinitely obliged to me; for all London, it appears, 
is flocking to the Haymarket to see whether “ Henry 
IV” is really so bad as I think it. 




















PN shaw, George Bernerd 
eO9K Dramatic opinions end 
S45 essays 

Viet 

EOD.) 





PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 


UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 


.- 


. t-e4 
-_— . 
++ tle « 
ot a 


ae 
AA 
. 
Ca 


‘ J 


ewer 


. 
arn 


- 
o 
‘ 


5 
ry 





