


a 





Digitized by the Internet Archive 
In 2008 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/ruskinspoliticsOOshawuoft 


Ruskin’s Politics 


PRINTED IN ENGLAND 
AT THE OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
BY FREDERICK HALL 


Ruskin’s Politics 
By 


Bernard Shaw 


The Ruskin Centenary Council 


{Q21 


This Lecture was given at the Ruskin 
Centenary Exhibition held at the Royal 
Academy on the 2ist day of November, 


1919. 


gr ie rn A} & me 


S JAN 8 1965 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


HERE have been very few men, | 

think, in whom our manifold nature 
has been more marked than in Ruskin. If 
you go round this Exhibition, you will find 
several portraits exhibited as portraits of 
Ruskin ; but it is surprising what a number 
of other people they are portraits of. 
Somewhere behind me on that wall, there 
is a bronze dish; and on that bronze a 
portrait of Ruskin in profile. That 1s 
one of the most remarkable portraits in the 
Exhibition, because whatever its merits may 
be asa portrait of Ruskin—and probably 
some of youwill have said on seeing it, ‘That 
is not very like the Ruskin we are familiar 
with,—it is not at all a bad portrait of 
Mozart. Almost all the genuine portraits 
of Mozart are profiles. No doubt some 
of you have been taken in by the usual 
music-shop portrait of a handsome young 
nobleman who was a contemporary of 
Mozart. But in the genuine Mozart por- 
traits there isa peculiar salience about the 


(5) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


profile; you will see in them that Mozart’s 
upper lip came out with a certain vivacity 
in it peculiar to the man, which spoils his 
beauty as compared with the portrait of 
the nobleman, but nevertheless gives you 
the great musician, who at the end of his 
life subordinated his music to his social 
enthusiasms and wrote his last opera 
nominally on the subject of freemasonry, 
but really on that social upheaval which 
was then preparing the French Revolution 
and has been developing ever since. Now 
look over there to my left; and you will 
see a portrait of Ruskin by Herkomer. 
But it is more like John Stuart Mill. If 
you look at some of the photographs that 
were taken in the Lake country, when 
Ruskin was an elderly man, those of you 
who enjoyed the acquaintance of Grant 
Allen will be struck by the fact that they 
are very good portraits of Grant Allen: 
you feel that if Grant had lived a little 
longer, he would have been exactly like 
that. 

Thus the portraits give you by their 
resemblances the evolution of the artist 
into the prophet. He begins as a painter, 
a lover of music, a poet and rhetorician, 


(6) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


and presently becomes an economist and 
sociologist, finally developing sociology 
and economics into a religion, as all 
economics and sociology that are worth 
anything do finally develop. You follow 
him from Mozart to Mill, picking up on 
the way the man of science, Grant Allen, 
also a little in the sociological line, but 
very much interested in science and 
material things, and material forms and 
shapes, just as Ruskin is in Modern Painters. 
Finally you have the portraits made by 
Mr. Severn of Ruskin in his latest time, 
when Ruskin was hardly a human being 
at all, when almost the nearest resemblance 
that occurs to you is his resemblance to 
God as depicted in Blake’s Book of Fob. 
You get, in short, to an almost divine 
condition. 

I dare say you have already had lectures 
on all the phases of Ruskin represented in 
those portraits; and now it has come to 
my turn to deal with Ruskin as a politician. 
I think Ruskin was more misunderstood as 
a politician than in any other department 
of his activity. People complained that 
he was unintelligible. I do not think he 
was unintelligible. If you read his political 


me), 


RUSKIN’s POLITICS 


utterances, the one thing that you cannot 
say of them is that they were unintelligible. 
You would imagine that no human being 
could ever have been under the slightest 
delusion as to what Ruskin meant and 
was driving at. But what really puzzled 
his readers—and incidentally saved his life, 
y because he certainly would have been 
hanged if they had grasped what he was 
driving at, and believed that he believed 
it—was that he was incredible. You see, 
he appealed to the educated, cultivated, 
and discontented. It is true that he 
addressed himself to the working-classes 
generally ; and you can find among the 
working-classes, just as Mr. Charles Rowlcy 
has found in the Ancoats quarter of 
Manchester, a certain proportion of work- 
ing-men who have intellectual tastes and 
artistic interests. But in all classes his 
disciples were the few who were at war with 
commercial civilization. I have met in 
my lifetime some extremely revolutionary 
characters ; and quite a large number of 
them, when I have asked, ‘Who put you 
on to this revolutionary line? Was it Karl 
¢ Marx?? have answered, ‘No, it was 
Ruskin ?. Generally the Ruskinite is the 


(38) 





RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


most thoroughgoing of the opponents of 
our existing state of society. 

Now the reason why the educated and 
cultured classes in this country found 
Ruskin incredible was that they could not 
bring themselves to believe that he meant 
what he was saying, and indeed shouting. 
He was even shouting in such terms that 
if I were to describe it merely as abusive 
I should underdo the description. Think 
of the way in which his readers were 
brought up! They were educated at our 
public schools and universities; they 
moved in a society which fitted in with 
those public schools and universities ; they 
had been brought up from their earliest 
childhood as above everything respectable 
people; taught thatwhat respectable people 
did was the right and proper thing to do, 
was good form and also high culture; that 
such people were the salt of the earth; 
that everything that existed in the way of 
artistic culture depended on their cultured 
and leisured existence. When you have 
people saturated from their childhood 
with views of that kind, and they are 
suddenly confronted with a violently con- 
trary view, they are unable to take it in, 


(9) B 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


For instance, to put it quite simply, they 
knew that there were the Ten Command- 
ments, and that the Ten Commandments 
were all right; and they argued from this 
that as respectable people were all right 
in everything they did they must be living 
according to the Ten Commandments. 
Therefore their consciences were entirely 
untroubled. 

I have here a volume of Ruskin which 
I took up this morning, intending to read 
it, but had not time. I opened it at 
random, and happened on a page on which 
Ruskin gave the Ten Commandments ac- 
cording to which in his conception our 
polite and cultured society really lives. 
This is the only passage I shall read to- 
day, though I feel, of course, the tempta- 
tion that every lecturer on Ruskin feels 
to get out of his job by reading, because 
anything he reads 1s likely to be better 
than anything he can say of his own. 
Ruskin says : 


‘Generally the ten commandments are now: 
Thou shalt have any other god but me. 
Thou shalt worship every bestial imagination 
on earth and under it. Thou shalt take the 
name of the Lord in vain to mock the poor ; 


( 10) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 
for the Lord will hold him guiltless who 


rebukes and gives not; thou shalt remember 
the sabbath day to keep it profane; thou shalt 
dishonour thy father and thy mother; thou 
shalt kill, and kill by the million, with all thy 
might and mind and wealth spent in machinery 
for multifold killing ; thou shalt look on every 
woman to lust after her; thou shalt steal, and 
steal from morning till evening; the evil from 
the good, and the rich from the poor; thou 
shalt live by continual lying in million-fold 
sheets of lies; and covet thy neighbour’s 
house, and country, and wealth and fame, and 
everything that is his. And finally, by word 
of the Devil, in short summary, through Adam 
Smith, a new commandment give I unto you: 
that ye hate one another.’ 


If anybody is going to tell me, here or 
elsewhere, that this is unintelligible, I do 
not know what to think of that person’s 
brains. Nothing could well be clearer. 
But, as I have said, and repeat, it was 
profoundly incredible to those to whom 
it was addressed. 

Ruskin’s political message to the cultured 
society of his day, the class to which he 
himself belonged, began and ended in this 
simple judgement: ‘You are a parcel of 
thieves? That is what it came to. He 


oo") 


Ap eee 
} ee 
than 


ae 


7 


« PA 
v 


wa 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


never went away from that; and he en- 
forced it with a very extraordinary power 
yof invective. Ruskin was a master of 
invective. Compare him, for instance, with 
Cobbett. Cobbett had immense literary 
style ; and when he hated a thing, he hated 
it very thoroughly indeed. Think of 
Cobbett’s writing about the funding system 
—think of his writing about the spolration 
of the Church by Henry VUI—think of 
his writing about the barrenness of Surrey, 
which cultured society likes so much and 
which Cobbett loathed as a barren place— 
think of what he said about ‘ barbarous, 
bestial Malthus’— think of Cobbett at 
the height of his vituperation. Then go 
on to Karl Marx. Karl Marx was a Jew 
Ywho had, like Jeremiah, a great power 
of invective. Think of the suppression of 
the Paris Commune of 1871, and then 
of that terrific screed that Marx wrote, 
exposing the Empire, denouncing the 
Versaillese generals, execrating the whole 
order of things which destroyed the Com- 
mune so remorselessly. ‘There you have 
a masterpiece of invective, a thing which, 
although it was not reproduced in any of 
the newspapers, or popular literary issues 


(12) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


of the day, nevertheless did leave such an 
effect that when, thirty years after, a 
proposal was made in the French Chamber 
to put Gallifet into a public position of 
some credit, the governing classes having 
forgotten that a word had ever been said 
against him, suddenly that terrible de- 
nunciation of Marx rose up against him 
and struck him absolutely out of public 
life. Yet when you read these invectives 
of Marx and Cobbett, and read Ruskin’s 
invectives afterwards, somehow or other 
you feel that Ruskin beats them hollow. 
Perhaps the reason was that they hated 
their enemy so thoroughly. Ruskin does. 
it without hatred, and therefore he does ” 
it with a magnificent thoroughness. You 
may say that his strength in invective 1s as 
the strength of ten because his heart 1s 
pure. And the only consequence of his 
denunciation of society was that people 
said, ‘Well, he can’t possibly be talking 
about us, the respectable people’; and so 
they did not take any notice of it. 

I must now go on to Ruskin’s specific 
contribution to economics and sociology, 
because that, as you know, to-day means 
a contribution to politics. In Ruskin’s 


13.) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


own time this was not so clear. People 
did not understand then that your base in 
politics must be an economic base and a 
sociological base. We all know it to-day, 
and know it to our cost; and will know 
it to our still greater cost unless we find 
a way out, which, it seems, lies not very 
far from Ruskin’s way. Ruskin took up 
the treatises of our classic political eco- 
nomy, the books by which our Manchester 
Capitalism sought to justify its existence. 
In this he did what Karl Marx had done 
_ before; and, like Marx, he did it in a way 
which I do not like exactly to describe as 
a corrupt way, because you cannot think 
of corruption 1n connexion with Ruskin: 
nevertheless, he did not take it up as a man 
with a disinterested academic enthusiasm 
for abstract political economy. I think 
we must admit that, like Marx, he took it 
up because he was clever enough to see 
that it was a very good stick to beat the 
Capitalist dog with. Marx took up the 
theory of value which had been begun by 
Adam Smith, and developed by Malthus, 
and, seeing that he could turn it against 
Capitalism, tried to re-establish it on a basis 
of his own. Thus we got his celebrated 


( 14 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


theory of value, which 1s now a celebrated 
blunder. What Ruskin did was this. He 
held up to us the definition of value given 


by the economists, and said: ‘ These gentle- _ 


men define value as value in exchange. 
Therefore’, he said, ‘a thing that you 


cannot exchange has no value : a thing that. 


you can exchange has value. Very well. 
When on my way to Venice I go through 
Paris, I can buy there for two francs fifty 
an obscene lithograph, produced by the 
French to sell to English tourists. When 
I reach Venice, I go to the Scuola di San 
Rocco and look at the ceiling painted there 
by Tintoretto, because it is one of the 
treasures of the world. But that ceiling 
cannot be sold in the market. It has no 
exchange value. Therefore, according to 
John Stuart Mill, the obscene lithograph 
has a higher value than the ceiling, which 
in fact has no value at all. After that, I 
have no further use for your political 
economy. If that is the way you begin, 
I hesitate to go on to the end; for I know 
where your journey must land you—in 
hell. You may be under the impression 
that after all hell is a thing you can think 
of later on; but you are mistaken: you 


fe) 


| a 
to 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


are already at your destination: the con- 
dition in which you are living 1s virtually 
hell? Then he gave his version of your 
Ten Commandments. If you had said to 
him, ‘We may be in hell; but we feel 
extremely comfortable’, Ruskin, being a 


- genuinely religious man, would have replied, 
_ ¢That simply shows that you are dammed 
, to the uttermost depths of damnation, 
(_because not only are you in hell, but you 


like being in hell ?. 

Ruskin got no farther than that in 
political economy. It was really a preg- 
nant contribution ; but he did not go on. 
Having knocked the spurious law of value 
into a cocked hat, he did not go on to 
discover a scientific law of value ; and he 
took no interest in and never reached that 
other very revolutionary law, the law of 
economic rent. I see no sign in his writings 
that he ever discovered it. 

When Karl Marx (let me make this 
contrast) demonstrated that, in his phrase, 
the working-man was being exploited by 
the Capitalist—and Karl Marx took a great 
deal of trouble to establish what he called 
the rate of surplus value: that is to say, 
the rate atwhich the Capitalist was robbing 


(16) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


the working-man—he made a pretence of 
doing the thing mathematically. He was 
not a mathematician; but he had a weak- 
ness for posing as a mathematician and 
using algebraic symbols. He tried to 
determine the quantitative aspect of ex- 
ploitation. That sort of thing did not 
interest Ruskin. Ruskin said to the Capi- 
talist, ‘ You are either a thief or an honest 
man. I have discovered that you are a 
thief. It does not matter to me whether 
you are a fifty per cent. thief or a seventy 
per cent. thief. That may be interesting 
to men of business who are interested in 
figures. Iamnot. Suthcient to me that 
you are a thief. Having found out that 
you are a thief, I can now tell you what 
your taste in art will be. And as I do 
not like a thievish taste in art I suggest 
you should become an honest man.? And 
I dare say the Capitalists who read it said: 
‘Aha! that serves Jones right!’ I doubt 
if they ever applied it to themselves. 
Though Ruskin was certainly not a 
completely equipped economist, I put him 
nevertheless with Jevons as one of the 
great economists, because he knocked the 
first great hole in classic economics by 


(17) c 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


showing that its value basis was an inhuman 
and unreal basis, and could not without 
ruin to civilization be accepted as a basis 
for society at all. Then Jevons came 
along and exploded the classic value theory 
from the abstract scientific side. Marxalso 
never grasped the law of rent, never under- 
stood one bit of it any more than Ruskin. 
Nevertheless Marx did establish Marxism, 
a thing of which you hear a good deal, and 
which is therefore worth defining. Marxism 
does not mean this or that particular 
_theory: it does mean that the economic 
question is fundamental in politics and 
sociology. No doubt some of Marx’s 
disciples—after the way of disciples—have 
pushed that view a little hard. You know 
that some of the curators of the Natural 
History Museum at South Kensington are 
eminent naturalists and palaeontologists. 
In my youth—I do not know whether they 
do it still__their favourite swank was to 
say, ‘If you will bring us the smallest bone 
of any extinct monster, from that small 
bonewe can reconstruct the whole monster’. 
I remember in my youth being impressed by 
that—not so much by the wonderful thing 
they said they could do, as by their clever- 


( 18 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


ness in discovering how safe it was to say 
they could do it: for when they had re- 
constructed the monster, who could come 
along and prove that it was not a bit like 
the original? Nobody could produce a 
live monster from his back garden and 
compare the two. 

In the same way Marx said, in effect, 
‘If you will bring me the tool or machine 
with which a man worked, I will deduce 
from it with infallible certainty his politics, 
his religion, his philosophy, and his view 
of history and morals’. That, of course, 
like the South Kensington offer, was a 
ereat swank. Nevertheless it epitomizes 
an important truth, and makes you feel 
the dramatic power with which Marx 
brought into economics and politics his 
view of the fundamental importance of 
economics. Our own historian, Buckle, 
had taken very much the same line ; but 
I think I can give youa simpler illustration 
of the importance of the economic basis, 
and why it was that Ruskin, beginning as 
an artist with an interest in art—exactly — 
as I did myself, by the way—was inevitably |’ 


driven back to economics, and to the | | tT 
conviction that your art ‘would never | 


( 19 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


come right whilst your economics were 
‘wrong. 

The illustration I will give you 1s this. 
Here am I addressing you, a cultivated 
audience. I wish to keep before you the 
most elevated view of all the questions 
Ruskin dealt with. Iam straining all my 
mental faculties and drawing on all my 
knowledge. Now suppose you were to 
chain me to this table and invite me to go 
on and on. What would happen? Well, 
after some hours a change would take 
place in the relative importance of the 
things presenting themselves to my mind. 
At first, I should be thinking of Ruskin, 
and attending to my business here as a 
lecturer on Ruskin. But at last my atten- 
tion would shift from the audience in front 
of me to that corner of the room behind 
me, because that is where the refreshment 
room is. I should in fact be thinking of 
nothing but my next’ meal. I should 
finally reach a point at which, though 
I am a vegetarian, I should be looking at 
the chubbiest person in the audience, and 
wishing I could eat that chubby person. 

That is the real soundness of Marxism 
and of Ruskin’s change of ground from 


(20 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


art to economics. You may aim at making 





a man cultured and religious; but you ie 


must feed him first; and you must teed 
him to the point at which he is reasonably 
happy, because if you feed him only to 
the point at which you can make a bare 
drudge of him and not make him happy, 
then in his need for a certain degree of 
happiness he will go and buy artificial 
happiness at the public-house and other 
places. Working-men do that at the 
present day: indeed we all do it to a 
certain extent, because all our lives are 
made more or less unhappy by our economic 
slavery, whether we are slaves or masters. 
Economics are fundamental in politics : 
you must begin with the feeding of the 
individual. __ Unless you build on that, all 
There you have the condition postulated 
by Marx and every sensible man. That is 
why Ruskin, when he was twenty, gave 
you Modern Painters, and at thirty, The 
— Stones of Venice, also about art, but very, 
largely about the happiness of working- 
men who made the art; for the beauty of 
Venice 1s a reflection of the happiness of 
the men who made Venice. When he was 


oa 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


forty he wrote Unto this Last, and there 
“took you very far away from art and very 
close to politics. At fifty he gave us the 
Inaugural Lectures, and, finally, Fors Clavr- 
gera, in which you find his most tremendous 
invectives against modern society. 

Now since Ruskin’s contemporaries ne- 
glected him politically because they found 
the plain meaning of his words incredible, 
I put the question whether in the course 
of time there has developed any living 
political activity on behalf of which you 
might enlist Ruskin if he were living at 
the present time. It goes without saying, 
of course, that he was a Communist. He 
was quite clear as to that. But now comes 
the question, What was his attitude to- 
wards Democracy? Well, it was another 
example of the law that no really great 
man 1s ever a democrat in the vulgar sense, 
by which I mean that sense in which 
Democracy is identified with our modern 
electoral system and our system of voting. 
Ruskin never gave one moment’s quarter 
to all that. He set no store by it what- 
ever, any more than his famous contem- 
porary, Charles Dickens—1in his own parti- 
cular department the most gifted English 


( 22) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


writer since Shakespeare, and resembling 
Ruskin in being dominated by a social 
conscience. Dickens was supposed to be 
an extremely popular person, always on 
the side of the people against the ruling 
class; whereas Ruskin might, as a com- 
paratively rich University man, have been 
expected to be on the other side. Yet 
Dickens gives no more quarter to Demo- 
cracy than Ruskin. He begins by un- 
masking mere superficial abuses like the 
Court of Chancery and imprisonment for 
debt, imagining them to be fundamental 
abuses. Then, suddenly discovering that 
it is the whole framework of society that 
is wrong, he writes Hard Times, and after 
that becomes a prophet as well as a story- 
teller. You must not imagine that pro- 
phets are a dead race, who died with 
Habakkuk and Joel. The prophets are 
always with us. We have [zrdicateng Dr. 
Inge, the Dean of St. PauPs| some of them 
in this room at the present time. But 
Dickens the prophet is never Dickens the 
Democrat. Take any book of hisin which 
he plays his peculiar trick of putting before 
you some shameful social abuse, and then 
asking what 1s to be done about it! Does 


(7238) 


Bikud Hiv: 





RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


he in any single instance say: ‘You 
working-men who have the majority of 
votes: what are you going to do about it ?? 


He never does. He always appeals to the 


aristocracy. He says: ‘Your Majesty, my 
lords and gentlemen, right honourables 
and wrong honourables of every degree : 
what have you to say to this?? When 
he introduces a working-man, he may make 
that working-man complain bitterly that 
society 1s all wrong; but when the pluto- 
crats turn round on that man and say to 
him, ¢Oh, you think yourself very clever. 
What would you do? You complain about 
everything. What would you do to set 


things right?’ he makes the working-man 


say, ‘It is not for the like of me to say. 
It is the business of people who have the 
power and the knowledge to understand 


( these things, and take it on themselves to 


right them” That is the attitude of 
Dickens, and the attitude of Ruskin; and 


| that_really 1s my attitude as well. The 


people at large are occupied with their 
own special jobs; and the reconstruction 
of society is a very special job indeed. 
To tell the people to make their own laws 
is to mock them just as I should mock you 


( 24 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


if I said, ‘Gentlemen: you are the people : &; 


write your own plays’. The people are 
the judges of the laws and of plays; but 
they can never be the makers of them. 
Thus Ruskin, like Dickens, understood 
that the reconstruction of society must be 
the work of an energetic and conscientious 
minority. Both of them knew that the 
government of a country is always the 
work of a minority, energetic, possibly 
conscientious, possibly the reverse, too 
often a merely predatory minority which 
produces an illusion of conscientiousness 
by setting up a convention that what they 
want for their own advantage is for the 
good of society. They pay very clever 
people to prove it; and the clever people 
argue themselves into believing it. The 
Manchester or anti-Ruskin school had 
plenty of sincere and able apologists. If 
you read Austin’s lectures on jurisprudence, 
for instance, you will find a more complete 
acknowledgement of the horrors inevitable 
under Capitalism than in most Socialist 
writers, because Austin had convinced 
himself that they are the price of liberty 
and of progress. But then nobody in his 
day conceived Socialism as a practical 


( 25 ) D 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


alternative : indeed it was not then prac- 
ticable. Austin’s argument, or rather his 
choice of evils, is no longer forced on us; 
so we necd not concern ourselves about it 
except as a demonstration that Ruskin’s 
scepticism as to government by the people 
as distinguished from government of the 
people for the people is shared by his 
most extreme and logical opponents as 
well as by his kindred spirits. 

Is there, then, any existing political 
system in operation in Europe at this 
moment which combines Communism with 
a belief in government by an energetic 
andenlightened minority,and whose leaders 
openly say, ‘There is no use talking about 

,_» Democracy. If reforms are to wait until 
a majority of the people are converted to 
an intelligent belief in them, no reforms 
will ever be made at all. If we, whose 
intentions are honest, wait for such an 

' umpossible conversion, the only result of 
our sitting down and doing nothing will 
be that another energetic majority, whose 
intentions are evil, will seize the lead and 
govern in our stead. Democracy in that 
sense would be merely an excuse to enable 
us to go on talking, without ever being 





Uy 


ee ee fe ( 26 ) 


: a 
TE // royet pk z ) 
of } 


/ a tC ) a / ZS 3 J 


fs 1 ot a 
mee 
c—o 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


called upon to take the responsibility of 
doing anything. Moreover, our opponents 
would kill us’? 

Can you point to any political body in 
Europe which is now taking that line? 
Let me lead you to it gently. 

In Germany, Socialism has been repre- 
sented by the Social-Democrats; and they 
had a great apparent democratic success 
in the way of getting members into parlia- 
ment, and becoming the largest group 
there, besides founding many newspapers, 
and figuring as an established institution 
in the country. Their theoretic spokes- 
man is_Kautsky. Some years before the 
war there was a certain Internationalist 
Socialist Congress. As usual there was 
some controversy between the French and 
the Germans, the French being led by 
Jaurés, who was then happily still alive. 
The Germans claimed superior authority in 
the Socialist movement because they were 
so much more largely and systematically 
organized. They cited their numerous 
branches, their newspapers, their millions 
of votes, and their representation in 
Parliament, in which, by the way, they 
had a self-denying ordinance that none 


( 27) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


of them should take office until the Capi- 
talist system was overthrown. This saved 
them much trouble. They had only to 
sit and criticize their opponents ; and they 
criticized them very eloquently and very 
thoroughly. When the German leader, 
Bebel, had detailed all those advantages 
and thrown them at the head of the French, 
he said, ‘What have you French Socialists 
to show in the way of Socialist organization 
comparable to that?’ Jaurés simply said : 
‘Ah, if we had all that in France, some- 
THING WOULD HAPPEN.” Which shut up the 
German party. 

You see, it had been driven in on Jaures, 
himself a great talker, that mere talking 
is no use. It comes to no more than the 
talking about Christianity which has been 
going on for nineteen hundred years, dur- 
ing which official Christianity has been 
incessantly trying to find excuses for dis- 
regarding the teaching of Christ. I re- 
member when I was busy as an unpaid and 
quite sincere Socialist agitator in this 
country—there were twelve years of my 
life during which I delivered a long public 
address on Socialism certainly three times 


a fortnight—one of the things that puzzled 
( 28 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


me at first was that I_ met with so little 
opposition. I found that I was almost 
like a clergyman talking pious platitudes. 
Nobody objected. Nothing happened. I 
apparently carried my audiences enthusi- 
astically with me. Nevertheless Capitalism 
went on just the same. I began to under- 
stand that the leaders of Socialism, the 
men with the requisite brains and political 
comprehension, must not wait as Kautsky 
would have them wait on the plea that 
you must do nothing until you have con- 
verted the people, and can win a bloodless 
victory through the ballot-box. The 
people seldom know what they want, and 
never know how to get it. 

As against Kautsky, Europe has in the 
field a very interesting statesman named 
Nicholas Lenin. He says, ‘As long as 
you talk like that, you will not do any- 
thing, and don’t really mean to do any- 
thing. In this world things are done by 
men who have convictions, who believe 
those convictions to be right, and who 
are prepared with all the strength they 
have or can rally to them to impose appro- 
priate institutions on the vast majority 
who are themselves as incapable of making 


( 29 ) 





RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


the institutions as of inventing the tele- 
scope or calculating the distance of the 
nearest fixed star.’ 

Do not forget that this attitude of Lenin 
is the attitude not only of all the prophets, 
but of, say, Mr. Winston Churchill and 
Mr. Arthur Balfour. All our military 
and governing people who have practical 
experience of State affairs know that the 
people, for good or evil, must, whether 
they will or no, be finally governed by 
people capable of governing, and that the 
people themselves know this instinctively, 
and mistrust all democratic doctrinaires. 
If you like to call Bolshevism a combina- 
tion of the Tory oligarchism of Ruskin 
and Mr. Winston Churchill with the Tory 
Communism of Ruskin alone, you may. 
So it comes to this, that when we look for 
a party which could logically claim Ruskin 
to-day as one of its prophets, we find it 
in the Bolshevist party. (Laughter.) You 
laugh at this. You feel it to be absurd. 
But I have given you a demonstration ; 
and I want you now to pick a hole in the 
demonstration if youcan. You got out 
of the dithculty in Ruskin’s own time by 
saying that he was a Tory. He said so 


( 30 ) 


RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


himself. But then you did not quite grasp 
the fact that all Socialists are Tories in 


that sense. The Tory is a man who believes 
that those who are qualified by nature and 
training for public work, and_who_ are 


naturally a minority, have to govern the 


mass of the people. That is Toryism. 
That is also Bolshevism. The Russian 


masses elected a National Assembly : Lenin 
and the Bolshevists ruthlessly shoved it 
out of the way, and indeed shot it out 
of the way as far as it refused to be 
shoved. 

Some of you, in view of the shooting, 
repudiate Bolshevism as a blood-stained 
tyranny, and revolt against the connexion 
of Ruskin’s name with it. Butif you are 
never going to follow any prophet in whose y 
name Governments have been guilty of 
killing those who resist them, you will have 
to repudiate your country, your religion, 
and your humanity. Let us be humble. 
There is no use in throwing these terms at 
one another. Youcannot repudiate religion 
because it has been connected with the 
atrocities of the wars of religion. You | 
cannot, for instance, ask any Roman 
Catholic to repudiate his Church because 


( 31) 





RUSKIN’S POLITICS 


of the things that were done in the In- 
quisition, or any Protestant to admit that 
Luther must stand or fall by the acts of 
the soldiers of Gustavus Adolphus. All 
you can do is to deplore the atrocities. 
Lenin said the other day, ‘Yes: there 
oe have been atrocities: and they have not 
all been inevitable’. I wish every other 
statesman im Europe had the same candour. 
Look at all that has been done not only 


by Bolshevists, but by anti-Bolshevists, by 
ourselves, and by all the belligerents! 
There is only one thing that it becomes 
us to say ; and that is,‘ God forgive us all ’. 








-, 


b ~ Be 
PL ASE DO NOt REMOVE 


CARDS OR SUPS FROM THI POCKET 


. 


e mt ee Fe * a= t 7 
o> Centenery Touncil 





