


° 
a 
< 
8 s 
ee 
ti 
a 





4 ” ¢@ 
‘ ¢ 
C i. Cy ¢@ € 
€ @ 
‘ 
LY 
7 
cs @ 
- J 
J 
« sd 
@ 
Fi ete Cy Lo 
Y 
‘ « 
: F A 
d J t 
® e 
é 
hd * . ¢ 
* J id 
¢ 
: é 
« 
. - 
- 7 a a te 
r F 
Le 
A A! e ¢ | “ 
q " Ci . 
J s a 
“ 
* ‘ S 
¢¢ 
‘ 
- 
a | 
* 
‘ 
@ és a « 
4 a) eh 
ny r r 
‘ a « i 
r 
¢ r 
i & (] ee ee 
ee ok ee | 
Ad = doy Ca 
fT 6 
* 
+ beh 4 
e " re 
J J J J 
. . @#4 
] " e 
t 
7] 
“ too ? 
Se . 
e 
L . 
re 4 C 
° i i » 
Co Fi “ ry ] ? C 
“ rs 
4 
e 
CO 
¢ 
ata. * 
. 
i. 
4 . Sa en) 
ba e er 
Pe! 2 r 
, e¢ 
A « iL 
. 
F 
: | 
a e ¢@ 
rr 
a) 
r 
+] SS 
| 
rh 
‘ 
a ‘ . 
7 ie " 
« 
» rt 
is 
Ya 
a i a | 
s * ’ . Ce 
. . 
‘ J a L 
cr 
a 
7] ra a ° 
s 
cs . | 
4 
s e 
w 
a e 
r * - < 
** @ 
cr 
r 
2 
r ‘ 
‘ 7 
« 





. 
x) 
“ 
a 
‘ 
* 
< 
ro 
. 
a £ 
« 
. 
rey 
’ ¢ 
a 
A ae tO 
ee 
a 
« 
ry 
r 
Pa 
¢ 
* 
"7 4 
Ce 
, 
rm. 
. 
J 
] n 
4 
CO 
t 
@@ee#e 
<0 
® t 
baer = 
ae 
a 
. r 
4 
L 
« 
J 
ad | 
a 
a 
Le) . 
£ 
é« 
bd 
* 
| 
“ 
S 
m 
a 











e 














Fabian Tract No. 146. 


SOCIALISM AND SUPERIOR 
BRAINS 


A REPLY TO MR. MALLOCK 


By BERNARD SHAW 


PUBLISHED AND SOLD BY 
THE FABIAN SOCIETY. 


PRICE TWOPENCE. 


S.W.1, PusiisHED Nov. 1909. SEVENTH REPRINT, DECEMBER 1931. 





CVF7 vm 





SOCIALISM AND SUPERIOR BRAINS. 


PREEALTORY NOTE: 


% 
— ~n ~ 


In January, 1909, Mr. Keir Hardie delivered an address in which he 
pointed out that the remarkable increase in our national income, of 
which so much was being said in the controversy then raging 
between Free Traders and lariff Reformers, had not been shared by 
the. working classes, who were no better off than before. Imme- 
diately Mr. W. H. Mallock wrote to The Times accusing Mr. Keir 
Hardie of ignorance of political economy, on the ground that an 
‘educated man would have known that as the increase had been 
produced by the exceptional ability of the employers and inventors, 
there was no reason to claim any share of it for the employee class. 
Thereupon I lost patience with Mr. Mallock and wrote the following 
letter to The Times. 


MR. MALLOCK’S IDEALS. 
TO THE EDITOR OF THE TIMES. 


Sir,—Mr. Mallock’s controversy with Mr. Chiozza-Money over the feats of Mr. 
Keir Hardie may very well be left to the embarrassed silence in which good-natured 
people sit when a person of some distinction volunteers an absurd blunder asa con- 
tribution to a subject which he has not mastered. The notion that the people who 
are now spending.in week-end- hotels, in motor cars, in Switzerland, the Riviera, and 
Algeria the remarkable increase in unearned incomes noted by Mr. Keir Hardie have 
ever invented anything, ever directed anything, ever even selected their own invest- 
ments without the aid of a stockbroker or solicitor, ever as much as seen the industries 
from which their incomes are derived, betrays not only the most rustic ignorance of 
economic theory, but a practical ignorance of society so incredible in a writer of Mr, 
Mallock’s position that I find it exceedingly difficult to persuade my fellow Socialists 
that he really believes what he teaches. they regard me as a cynic when I tell them 
that even the cleverest man will believe anything he wishes to believe, in spite of all 
the facts and all the text-books in the world. 

However, that is not the point that moves me to utterance on this occasion. If 
Mr. Mallock does not know the difference between the rents of land and capital,and 
the ‘rent of ability.’—if he is so ignorant of ordinary business and patent law as not 
to know that the-cleyerest inventor cannot possibly extract a farthing more from his 
invention than: his stupidest competitor when it has been communized 14 years after its 
‘registration—he must not expect the Socialists to educate him. My quarrel with him 
is deeper than the technics of distribution. Mr. Mallock is preaching an ideal; and 
I want every gentleman in England to repudiate that ideal, whether he be Socialist, 
Individualist, Liberal, Free Fooder, Tariff Reformer, or Home Ruler. 

The ideal i is, not that the greatest among you shall be servants of all the rest, but 
that whenever one of us discovers a means of increasing wealth and happiness, steps 
should be taken to restrict the increase to the discoverer alone, leaving the rest of the 
community as poor as if the discovery had never been made. If Mr. Mallock does 
not mean this, he means nothing. If he does mean it, what does his University say 
to him? What does the Church say to him? What does every officer in the Army 
and Navy say to him? What doés every Civil servant say to him, every states- 
man, every member of the humblest local authority, every professional man, every 
country gentleman, every man of honor, gentle or simple, who asks no more than 
a sufficient and dignified subsistence in return for the best service he is capable of 
giving to his country and to the world? This is not a question of the difference 
between the Socialist and the anti-Socialist: it is a question of the difference between 
the gentleman and the cad. Lord Lansdowne is nota Socialist, and Lord Charles 
Beresford 1 is not a Socialist ; but Lord Lansdowne has not asked for the hundreds of 





4 


millions he saved Europe by making our treaty with Japan; and Lord Charles Beres. 
ford, if the German fleet attacked ours, would not refuse to conduct our naval defence 
unless the country were to be given to him as prize money when he had saved it. It 
is true that we have tradesmen—some of them in business on a very large scale both 
here and in America-—impudent enough and base enough to demand for themselves 
every farthing that their business ability adds to the wealth of their country. If these 
canaille were surgeons with a monopoly of a capital operation, they would refuse to 
save a patient's life until they had extorted his entire fortune asa fee. If they were 
judges, they would sneer ata judge’s modest £5,000 a year, and demand the total 
Insurance value of the protection they afforded to society. If they were lifeboat cox- 
swains or firemen, they would bargain for the kit of a drowning sailor or the nighty of 
a child ina burning house before they would throw a lifebuoy or mount a ladder. 
They are justly despised by men of Mr. Mallock’s profession and education; and 
when Mr. Mallock challenges the right of our workmen to a share in the increased 
product of industry by asking whether their labor “has become more productive in 
respect of the laborer’s own exclusive operations,” he not only lays himself open to 
the obvious counter-question as to whether the “ exclusive operations” of our em- 
ployers could produce anything more than the exclusive operations of our laborers, 
but, what is far more serious, he seems to be lending the credit of his reputation, his 
education, and the high social and intellectual prestige of his class to the most aban- 
doned sort of blackguardism that is still outside the criminal law. 

It is fortunate for us that few of our tradesmen are so vile or so silly as the com- 
mercial theory by which theorists attempt to justify them. The man who has “made” 
420,000 a year for himself knows very well that his success does not afford the 
smallest presumption that his services have been more important than those of a 
police-constable with 24s.a week. He does not dream of posing as the superior of the 
captain of a battleship with a modest income of three figures. Mr. Carnegie “ divides 
up” his surplus millions, and makes wildly Socialistic proposals, never for « moment 
suggesting that he is 50 times as clever as Mr. Mallock because he js $0 times as rich, 
I am not supposed to be an exceptionally modest man ; but I did not advance the fact 
that I have made more money by a single play than Shakespear did by all his plays 
put together as a simple proof that I am enormously superior to Shakespear as a play- 
wright. Our millionaires unload—awkwardly and unwisely sometimes, it is true, but 
still they unload—and do not talk nonsense about Being 650 times as clever or as 
sober or as industrious as a dock-laborer because they have 650 times his income. 
The man who pretends that the distribution of income in this country reflects the dis- 
tribution of ability or character isan ignoramus. The man who says that it could by 
any possible political device be made to do so is an unpractical visionary. But the 
man who says that it ought to do so is something worse than an ignoramus and more 
disastrous than a visionary: he is, in the profoundest Scriptural sense of the word, a 
fool. 

In conclusion, may I confess that nothing is so terrifying to the Socialist to-day 
as the folly of his opponents? There is nothing to keep the inevitable advance steady, 
to force the rank and file to keep their best men forward. A paper called The Anti- 
Socialist is brought out with a flourish of trumpets. I open it, and find vers de société 
and a caricature of myself by a French artist, who depicts me in a French frock-coat, 
a Grand Old Man collar, and the countenance of Henri Rochefort, A Belgian 
navvy is labelled “ Ramsay Macdonald”: an American knockabout from the café 
chantant is carefully marked ‘Keir Hardie.” Is it worth while to spend so much 
money to provide our Socialist debaters with footballs? If the Socialists did not 
know the difficulties of Socialism better than their opponents, and were not therefore 
far sterner Tories than the tariff reformers and far sounder Liberals than the free- 
traders ; if all decent men were not nine-tenths Socialists to begin with, whether they 
know it or not; if there were any possibility of controversy as to the fundamental pro- 
position of Socialism that whoever does not by the work of his prime repay the debt 
of lis nurture and education, support himself in his working days, and provide for his 
retirement, inflicts on society precisely the same injury as a thief, then indeed the 
prospect would be black for civilization. As it is, I will continue to back the red flag 
against the black one; and with that I leave the Anti-Socialist League to sweep up 
the fragments of Mr. Mallock and produce their next champion. 


Yours truly, 
Feb.'9. G. BERNARD SHAW, 


5 


Mr. Mallock made two replies to this letter. The first was sent 
to The Times, the readers of which had had my letter before them. 
[It is practically a surrender without a blow. The second was sent 
to the other daily papers, the readers of which had not seen my 
letter. It is an attempt to retreat in fighting order. 


The Times letter is as follows. 


MR. BERNARD SHAW ON MR. MALLOCK, 
TO THE EDITOR OF THE TIMES. 


Sir—If Mr. Bernard Shaw cares to look into the pages of my “ Critical Exam- 
ination of Socialism,” he will find the opinion or “ideal” which he attributes to me 
stated with the most minute precision and emphatically repudiated. So far as I 
myself am concerned, his long letter is absolutely without relevance. 


I am your obedient servant, 


February 5. W. H. MALLOCK. 


The letter to the other papers ran thus: 


MR. MALLOCK AND G. B. SHAW. 
TO THE EDITOR OF THE MORNING ADVERTISER. 


Sir,—Mr. Shaw, although in his letter to the press, published this morning, he 
diverges into a variety of details, says that his main object is to criticise an opinion, or 
an “ideal” which he imputes to myself. The ideal translates itself into the doctrine 
that whatever increment of wealth is produced by ability as distinct from labor ought 
to be entirely appropriated by the gifted individual producing it, and that nobody 
else should receive from it any benefit. I have no right to demand that Mr. Shaw 
should read my writings, but it is reasonable to demand that he should read them 
before he attempts to criticise my opinions or ‘‘ideals.” If he had taken the trouble 
to read my “Critical Examination of Socialism,” he would have found that the par- 
ticular ideal or opinion which he imputes to me is described in that book with the 
utmost precision, but is described only that it may be in precise terms repudiated. 

On page 202 he will find the following passages :—“‘ If, therefore, the claims of 
labor are based on, and limited to, the amount of wealth which is produced by labur 
itself . . . what labor would receive would be far less, not more, than what it receives 
to-day. ... Is it, then, here contended, many readers will ask, that if matters are 
determined by ideal justice, or anything like practical wisdom, the remuneration of 
labor in general ought henceforth to be lessened, or, at all events, precluded from any 
possibility of increase? ... If anyone thinks that such is the conclusion which is 
here suggested, let him suspend his opinion until we return to it, as we shall do, and 
deal with it in a more comprehensive way.” This question is taken up again, page 
283, as follows :—'‘Is it, then, the reader will ask, the object of the present volume to 
suggest that the true course of social reform in the future... would be to bind 
down the majority to the little maximum they could produce by their own unaided 
efforts? The object of this volume is the precise opposite. It is not to suggest that 
they should possess no more than they produce. It is to place their claim to @ 
surplus not produced by themselves on a true instead of a fantastic basis.” Mr. Shaw 
may be left to read what follows if he pleases. 

With regard to two other definite points, he touches farther on what he calls my 
opinions, or my “rustic ignorance ”’ of economics. One of these relates to the “ rene 
of ability.” If he turns to pages 191-193 of my “ Critical Examination of Socialism,” 
he will find this question discussed with great minuteness, the truth contained in ths 
doctrine held by himself and other Socialists admitted and endorsed, and an elemer:t 
in the problem, which is yet more important, but to which they are entirely blind, 
specified. With regard to what Mr. Shaw says about conflagrations and ‘ babies’ 
nighties,” he will find this precise point anticipated and dealt with on page 124, 
“ Critical Examination.” I have, let me repeat, no right to claim that Mr. Shaw 
should read a line of anything I have written; but if in attempting to criticise the 
opinions and “ideals” of a writer, he imputes to him an ignorance or neglect of 
problems, ¢.g., the rent of ability, which he has discussed far more minutely than hase 





6 


Mr. Shaw himself, and attributes to him opinions which he has elaborately repu- 
diated, Mr. Shaw will have hardly added to his reputation as a critic either of 
economic theory or of anything else. Mr. Shaw writes about myself very much as a 
man would write who mistook the Book of Genesis for the Koran. 


I am, Sir, yours, etc., 


February §, 1909. W. H. MALLOCK. 


I am usually willing “to build a bridge of silver for a flying foe,” 
but in this case I cannot let Mr. Mallock off without pursuing him 
to utter extinction. The book to which Mr. Mallock refers as shew- 
ing that he has dealt with my argument does nothing of the kind: 
it reafirms his error as strongly as he knows how to do it. Even if 
it contained a recantation, I should still have to deal with his 
unprovoked attack on Mr. Keir Hardie, and with his “Short 
Epitome of Hight Lectures on the Principal Fallacies of Socialism,” 
in which he speaks of the Socialist “ promise of distributing among 
ihe great mass of the population that portion of the annual income 
which 1s at present in the hands of an exceptionally able minority.” 

But the Critical Examination of Socialism contains no recant- 
ation. What it does contain is a statement that though everything 
that men enjoy over and above what a savage can wring from 
nature with his unaided hands is due to the exceptional ability of 
the few (represented, Mr. Mallock implies, by our rich class to-day) 
yet it is not expedient to strip them of everything they possess 
above that level, as otherwise they would have no interest in civil- 
ization, and would revolt. Therefore Mr. Mallock promises to 
shew, in a future book, how society can be arranged so as to give us 
ali just enough to bribe us to allow the rich to remain in undis- 
turbed enjoyment of their present position. If anyone doubts the 
fairness of this description of Mr. Mallock’s last chapter, the book is 
easily accessible in the excellent cheap edition published by John 
Murray in November, 1908. In spite of the extravagance of the 
fundamental proposition of the book, which is that what a man 
produces is “that amount of wealth which would not have been 
produced at all had his efforts not been made” (pp. 206-7), thereby 
making every necessary laborer the producer of the entire wealth of 
the world, it is well worth reading, because it happens that any 
Pigencice that may still linger against Socialism is almost wholly 

4sed on such childish ignorance of existing social conditions, 
and defended by such absurd arguments, that Mr. Mallock is forced 
by his sense of intellectual honor to begin by making a clean 
sweep of the blunders of his own supporters. In doing so, he 
knocks the bottom out of Unsocialism as effectively as in his 
religious polemics he has knocked the bottom out of the vulgar 
sectarianism that passes for religion in this country. His object is 
to clear the ground for his own peculiar Individualism and Cathol- 
icism ; but he has cleared it equally for the Fabian Society, which 
has the same interest as Mr. Mallock in dispelling ignorance and 
confusion of thought. Besides, it is as well that the world should 
x ow that just as it seems clear to many laborers that the men who 
walk about in frock coats and tall hats, talking and writing letters, 


Z 


are not workers at all, and produce nothing, so these very frock- 
coated men believe, like Mr. Mallock, that the hired laborer is a 
Orainless machine that owes the very fuel and grease that keep it 
working to the intelligence of the class that exploits it. 

However, I need not argue the case with Mr. Mallock now. It 
happens that in 1894 a wave of discussion of Socialism was passing 
over the press. Mr. Mallock was then already ventilating his 
theory that the distribution of wealth in this country into big 
fortunes for the few and pittances for the many, corresponds to the 
natural division of the British race into a handful of geniuses and 
many millions of mediocrities. His diagrams are still extant to 
shew the lengths to which he went. Mr. Frank Harris was then 
editing The Fortnightly Review. He asked me could I answer Mr. 
Mallock. I replied boyishly that any Socialist over the age of six 
could knock Mr. Mallock into a cocked hat. He invited me to try 
my hand; and the result was the following essay, which appeared if 
the Review in April, 1894. I emphasize the date to shew tnat Mr, 
Maliock has had plenty of time to consider my case and answer it. 
When he put forth his Critical Examination of Socialism and 
accused Mr. Keir Hardie of illiterate ignorance, he forgot that his 
own Unsocialism had been critically examined, and that Mr. Keir 
Hardie had all the classic economists, from Adam Smith to Cairnes, 
at his back. Mr. Keir Hardie is, in fact, on this subject, demon- 
strably a better read and better informed authority than Mr. 
Mallock. 

I reprint my arguments as they appeared in 1894. During 
the fifteen years since, Oblivion has made a few topical allusions 
unintelligible, and Death has changed some present tenses into pasi 
ones. I have dealt with these by | a few inessential alterations, and 
omitted some chaff and some literary digressions; but the case 
against Mr. Maliock stands as it did. 





SOCIALISM AND SUPERIOR BRAINS. 


Mr. Mattock’s general proposition is, that exceptional personas 


ability is the main factor in the production of wealth, and that the 
Fabian essayists, by failing to grasp this, have greatly exaggerated 
the efficiency of mere labor in the production of wealth. Let me 
sce whether the irrepressible smile which this accusation has pro- 
duced upon the countenances of the essayists can be transferred to 
those of the public, and finally to that of Mr. Mallock himself. 

First, it is clear that such huge populations as curs realiy do owe: 
their very existence to what Mr. Mallock defines as Ability, and not 
to what he defines as Labor. The whole advantage of a Trans- 
atlantic steamship over a man paddling on a tree-trunk, of a Great 
Northern express cver 3 pilgrim’s staff, of a Nasmyth steam hammer 
over the lump of stone which St. Jerome uses to beat his breast 1D 
the pictures of the Old Masters, or of a power-loom over the plaiting 


power of the fingers: all this is the product, not of Labor, but of 


Ability. Give Labor its due, says Mr. Mallock ; and it will Fevers 
only what it could produce if Ability had never existed. Now this: 
would clearly be much less than enough to support even a fragment 
of our present population. Therefore, since Labor gets enough at 
present to keep it half alive or so, it must get more than its due 
(Mr. Mallock calculates forty per cent. more, though surely several 
thousand per cent. would be nearer the mark); and the excess is 3 
clear tribute levied upon Ability for the benefit of Labor. I take it 
that this is an inexpugnable proposition. Far from repudiating it, 
as Mr. Mallock would seem to expect, I embrace it in the spirit in 
which Mrs. Gamp asked Mrs. Prig, ““Who deniges of it, Beer.” 
What on earth use would Ability be to us if it did not lhghten our 
toil and increase our gain? We support and encourage Ability in 
order that we may get as much as possible out of it, not in order 


that it may get as much as possible out of us. Mr. Mallock seems toe 


regard this as dishonest. Possibly it is; but it is the sole safeguard 
for the existence of men of Ability. Give them and their heirs the 
entire product of their ability, so that they shall be enormously rich 
whilst the rest of us remain jusi as poor as if they had never existed ; 
and it will become a public duty to kill them, since nobody but 
themselves will be any the worse, and we shall be much the better 
for having no further provocation to the sin of envy. 


The Able Inventor. 


This does not seem to have struck Mr. Mallock until the first 
appearance of this article in 1894. He had been preoccupied by the 
danger of the opposite extreme—that of grabbing the entire pro- 
duct of exceptional ability, and thus depriving it of its commercial 


Z 


incentive to action. Fortunately, society is not bound to go lo 
either extreme: its business from the commercial point of view 1s 
to get the use of ability as cheaply as it can for the beneht of the 
community, giving the able man just enough advantage to keep his 
ability active and efficient, if it should really turn out that able men 
will act stupidly unless they are given extra pay. From the Un- 
socialist point of view this is simply saying that it is the business of 
society to find out exactly how far it can rob the able man of the 
product of his ability without injuring itself, which is precisely true 
from that point of view), though whether it is a reduction of 
Socialism to dishonesty or of Unsocialism to absurdity may be left 
an open question. Happily we need not dwell on the moral 
question, since we have long ago adopted the Socialist point of view 
in every case in which the working of our industrial system admits 
of it. Take Mr. Mallock’s pet example, the inventor. His ability 
produces untold millions. Machine after machine is invented of 
which we are told that it has multiplied the productivity of labor 
twice, ten times, two hundred times, fourteen thousand times, and 
s0 on beyond the bounds of belief; and processes are devised by 
which metals are so strengthened that the formerly impossible Is 
now possible, the gain being consequently incalculable. What do 
we do with the public benefactors who shew us how to perform 
these marvels? Do we allow them and their remotest posterity to 
wallow in the full product of their ability, and so lose all incentive 
to further exertion? Not a bit of it. We announce to them our 
intention of making their invention public property in fourteen 
years time, during which, provided they pay us certain fees for the 
privilege, we allow them by patent such a power of veto on the use 
of the invention as enables them to secure during that period a 
share—and only a share—of its product. If at the end of the four- 
teen years they can prove to us that their invention has made its 
way so slowly that they have not been reasonably repaid for their 
actual expenditure in time and money, we may perhaps extend 
their privilege for a further short period. But after that comes 
naked Sogialistic expropriation, making the use of the invention free 
to the stupid and the clever alike. 


The Able Author. 


To vary the illustration, let us take the case of Mr. Mallock him- 
self, For aught we know, Mr. Mallock’s novels may outlive Don 
Quixote and Tom Jones; and his economic essays may stand as 
long as Aristotle’s. The difference in value between a page of one 
of his works and the advertisement sheet of a daily newspaper 1s 
wholly due to his ability, ability of an order which it is admittedly 
the highest duty of statesmanship to encourage to the utmost. Yee e 
how socialistically we treat Mr. Mallock! We reward his exertions 
by an offer to lend him his own books for forty-two years, after 
which the dullest bookseller in the land will be free to send his 
works to the printer and sell them without paying a farthing to 
the author’s heirs. And nobody suggests, as far as I know, that 





Ic 


if we were to extend the duration of patents and copyrights to 
a million years, we should get one book or one invention the more 
by it. | 

: Now let us suppose that on the expiration of Mr. Mallock’s copy- 
rights the cheap bookseller of the period were to make £10,000 by 
getting out a cheap edition of The New Republic, and were to 
call his gains the product of literary genius. The statement would be 
quite accurate ; but if he were to go on to claim any special sacred- 
ness (say from taxation) for his £10,000 on that account, he would 
be promptly met by the question, Whose literary genius? And when 
he replied, as he would have to, ‘Well, William Hurrell Mallock’s 
genius,” his fellow citizens would certainly inform him that they 
were not, if they could help it, going to privilege him because some- 
body else was a great writer. Now I will not say that any railway 
shareholder to-day is so absurd as to plume himself on the fact that 
his dividends are the product of inventive genius, leaving it to be 
inferred that the genius is his own and not George Stephenson’s ; 
but passage after passage in Mr. Mallock’s anti-Socialist writings 
either means that a railway dividend is the reward of the ability 
which invented the locomotive steam-engine or else means nothing 
at all. T’he obvious fact that the interest on railway stock in this 
country is paid mostly to people who could not invent a wheel- 
barrow, much less a locomotive, he treats as an ingenious Fabian 
paradox. And a cool assumption that every child, every woman of 
fashion, every man about town, every commonplace lady or gentle- 
man who holds shares in an electric lighting company, ora telephone 
company, or a ['ransatlantic steamship company, is a Wheatstone, a 
Bell, an Edison, a Bessemer, a Watt, or a Stephenson, he gravely 
reasons upon, and takes as a basis for elaborate statistical calculations 
and startling diagrams, as if it were sober sense instead of the most 
laughably extravagant bluff that has ever been attempted, even in a 
controversy on Socialism. Jam convinced that Mr. Mallock himself, 
now that I have placed his argument naked before him, will throw 
hiniself on the mercy of the town, and ask whether it is likely that 
so clever a man as he could have meant anything so outrageous. 
But there are his figures, graphic and arithmetical, to shew that he 
meant that interest on capital is the price of exceptional ability, and 
that profits include payment for every human invention, from the 
potter’s wheel to the marine steam-engine. Let me not here seem 
to disparage his common sense offensively. I cannot seriously be- 
lieve that if some relative were to leave him a million of money, he 
would say to his stockbroker, “Iam not satisfied with being a well- 
known author: I wish to be a great engineer too; so buy me some 
Manchester Ship Canal stock. I also yearn for fame as an aviator: 
get me instantly a few shares in the company which manufactured 
Monsieur Bleriot’s aeroplane. As I wish to secure immortality as a 
great sculptor, I shall call a great statue into existence by my 
capital: no doubt Monsieur Rodin or some other professional 
person will put in the mere manual labor for a few thousand 
guineas. I have also, I must confess, a curious longing to be 


CI 


remembered as a famous actress: I shall therefore build a theatre 
and engage Sarah Bernhardt, Eleonora Duse, and one or two other 
female proletarians, who, without the aid of capital, would be selling 
oranges like Nell Gwynne.” I feel sure Mr. MalNock has far too 
much ability to go on in any such insane way ; and I even believe 
that if a laborer were to write articles claiming that labor was so 
mighty that one workman could with a single stroke knead a mass 
of metal as if it were a lump of dough or slice a bar of steel like a 
cucumber, Mr. Mallock would smash such idiotic pretensions with 
the utmost brilliancy. Therefore, as I say, I am loth to trip him up 
tor having advanced cognate pretensions on behalf of the share- 
holding class. I had rather by far hold my tongue ; and I would 
have done so if only Mr. Mallock would leave the Fabians and 
Mr. Keir Hardie, who never injured him, unmolested. Why cannot 
a man write bad political economy without coupling it with an 
attack on the Fabian Society? The profit is naught ; the retribu- 
tion sudden, swift, and fearful. 


Ability at Supply-and-Demand Prices. 


The facts about “rent of ability” are not so simple as Mr. 
Mallock thinks. To begin with, the price of ability does not 
depend on merit, but on supply and demand. Plato was, on the 
whole, a greater author than Old Moore, the almanack maker ; but 
“€ he were alive now he would not make so much money by his 
books. When Ibsen died he was unquestionably the greatest 
dramatist of the nineteenth century ; but he was very far indeed 
from being the richest. Great philosophers and poets are apt to 
starve because, as their wares are above the heads of the public, 
there is no demand and therefore no price, although the commodity 
offered is very scarce and precious. But when the ability is of a sort 
everyone can appreciate, or, above all, that can make money or cure 
iliness, there is no lack of demand. Sometimes there is no lack of 
supply either: for instance, in a modern city the policemen, the 
firemen, the sewermen, are supposed to save property, life, and 
health wholesale: yet their ability is to be had without stint for 
twenty-four shillings a week or thereabouts, because the supply 1s 
large. Not so the suppy of popular portrait-painters, novelists, 
dramatists, consultant physicians, special pleaders, and directors and 
organizers of industry. These popular persons get large sums, not 
because their talents are more useful to society than those oi the 
policemen, but solely because they are scarcer. 

Imaginary Ability. | 

I say popular persons rather than able persons; for the public 
is often a very bad judge of ability. For example, there died 
a short time ago a barrister who once acquired extraordinary 
celebrity as an Old Bailey advocate, especially in murder cases. 
When he was at his zenith I read all his most famous defences, and 


can certify that he always missed the strong point in his client's case 
and the weak one in the case for the prosecution, and was, in short, 





12 


the most homicidally incompetent impostor that ever bullied a 
witness or made a “moving” but useless appeal to a jury. For- 
tunately for him the murderers were too stupid to see this: besides, 
their imaginations were powerfully impressed by the number of 
clients of his who were hanged. So they always engaged him, and 
added to his fame by getting hanged themselves in due course. ‘n 
the same way a surgeon will get a reputation as the only possible 
man to consult in cancer cases simply because he has cut off more 
breasts than anyone else. The fact that in all the professions there 
is one first favorite means no more than the fact that-there is only 
one editor of The Times. It is not the man who is singular, but 
the position. The public imagination demands a best man every- 
where; and if Nature does not supply him the public invents him. 
The art of humbug is the art of getting invented in this way. 
Every generation invents great men at whom posterity laughs when 
some accident makes it aware of them. Even in business, the 
greatest reputations are sometimes the result of the glamor of city 
superstition. JI could point to railway chairmen reputed indispens- 
able, whom the shareholders and the travelling public might with 
great proht and comfort to themselves send to St. Helena with a 
pension of £10,000 a year. 


The Ability that Gives Value for Money. 


But in business, as a rule,a man must make what he gets and 
something over into the bargain. I have known a man to be 
employed by a firm of underwriters to interview would-be insurers. 
His sole business was to talk to them and decide whether to insure 
or not. Salary, £4,000 a year. This meant that the loss of his 
judgment would have cost his employers more than £4,000 a year. 
Other men have an eye for contracts or what not, or are born 
captains of industry, in which cases they go into business on their 
own account, and make ten, twenty, or two hundred per cent. 
where you or I would lose five. Or, to turn back a moment from 
the giants to the minnows, take the case of a woman with a knack 
of cutting out a dress. She gets six guineas a week instead of 
eighteen shillings. Or she has perhaps a ladylike air and a figure 
on which a mantle looks well. For these she can get several 
guineas a week merely by standing in a show-room letting mantles 
be tried on her before customers. All these people are renters of 
ability ; and their ability is inseparable from them and dies with 
them. The excess of their gains over those of an ordinary person 
with the same capital and education is the “rent” of their excep- 
tional ‘fertility.”’ But observe: if the able person makes £100,000, 
and leaves that to his son, who, being but an ordinary gentle- 
man, can only get from two and a half to four per cent. on it, that 
revenue is pure interest on capital and in no sense whatever rent of 
ability. Its confiscation would set an idle man to work instead of 
depriving ability of its motive for exertion. When the late Lord 
Goschen was Chancellor of the Exchequer, he confiscated a half per 
cent. of the interest on Consols without checking the exercise of 


15 


ability in the least. Later on, when the value of even the reduced 
Consols was further reduced twenty-five per cent. by the South 
African War, and simultaneously the Income Tax (which is pure 
confiscation) jumped up to a shilling in the pound, the effect was 
not to dull our wits but to sharpen them. Raisea tradesman’s rent 
(a very common form of private confiscation) and he works harder, 
not softer. 


Waste of Ability and Inflation of its Price by 
The Idle Rich. 


Let us consider now how far exceptional payments depend reaily 
on the ability of the earner, and how far on the social conditions 
under which they occur. To begin with a striking instance. A 
famous painter charges, and gets, 2,000 guineas for painting a 
portrait. Such a price is rendered possible solely by the existence of 
a class of patrons so rich that the payment of 2,000 guineas inflicts 
less privation on them than the payment of sixpence to an itinerant 
photographer on Hampstead Heath inflicts on a courting coster- 
monger. These portraits are as often as not portraits of persons of 
average or inferior ability. If such persons had to earn the price of 
their portraits by their own labor, they would not pay two guineas, 
much less 2,000, for a portrait. On the other hand, the painter 
demands 2,000 guineas solely because he finds that he can get it, not 
in the least because his genius refuses to operate under a weaker 
stimulus. He will paint as good a portrait for £50 as for £2,000 
if £50 is the top of his market: greater painting than any yet pro- 
duced in Melbury Road or Fitzjohn’s Avenue has been worse paid 
than that. The fashionable physician, the surgeon pre-eminently 
skilled in some dangerous operation, the Parliamentary barrister, all 
owe the excess of their incomes over that of, say, a cabinet minister, 
to the competition among enormously rich people or huge com- 
panies for their services. In order to state the case in the most 
foolish possible way, let me put it that modern Capitalism has 
created thousands of guineas’ worth of professional ability where 
only tens and hundreds existed before. All that this meaus is that 
it has raised the price of certain sorts of ability twenty-fold without 
at all improving their quality. And in enabling idle rich people to 
buy up the best of this ability, it has greatly wasted and nullified it. 
The eminent painter paints unmemorable people; the fashionable 
physician preserves the lives of useless people; the Parliamentary 
barrister would be more useful to society as an upper division clerk 
in the legal branch of some public department. Generally speak- 
ing, it may be said that our capitalists pay men of ability very 
highly to devote their ability to the service of Capitalism ; and the 
moment society begins to outgrow the capitalistic system, it is no 
longer permissible to assume that ability devoted to the service of 
Capitalism is serviceable to society, or, indeed, that ability which 
can only flourish in that way is, from the social point of view, ability 
at all. 








14 


Artificial Rent of Ability. 


One result of that social inequality which Capitalism produces, 
and which Mr. Mallock admires as innocently as Pendennis admired 
Miss Fotheringay, is to produce an enormous artificial rent of 
ability. Just as high farming increases the yield of an acre of land, 
so education may increase the yield of a man. But high farming 
cannot increase the natural rent of an acre, since all the other acres 
can be high-farmed too; so that the difference between the worst 
acre and the best (otherwise the ‘“‘ economic rent’) can be reduced 
finally by equality of cultivation until it is no longer greater than 
the natural difference in fertility. Just so, by educating everybody, 
the social advantage which the educated man now has over the 
uneducated one can be destroyed, as it has been in the upper classes 
to-day. Again, enormous salaries are now paid to men because 
they add to ordinary business qualifications the habits and “ manners 
and tone’’ of people who have unearned incomes of £10,000 a year 
and upward. By doing away with such incomes of idleness, society 
could make such habits impossible, and such manners and tone 
ridiculous. If Mr. Mallock will only consider that at present the 
mass of our population is so poor that any presentable sort of 
literateness or social amenity, down even to personal cleanliness and 
a reasonable reticence in the matter of expectoration, has a distinct 
scarcity value, he may gain some faint suspicion of how much of 
that £490,000,000 a year which we pay in profits and salaries 
represents rent, not of natural ability, but of social opportunity. 


Artificial Ability. 

There is another sort of artificial superiority which also returns 
an artificial rent: the superiority of pure status. What are called 
‘superiors’? are just as necessary in social organization as a keystone 
is in an arch; but the keystone is made of no better material than 
many other parts of a bridge: its importance is conferred on it by 
its position, not its position by its importance. If half-a-dozen men 
are cast adrift in a sailing boat, they will need acaptain. It seems 
simple enough for them to choose the ablest man; but there may 
easily be no ablest man. The whole six, or four out of the six, or 
two out of the six, may be apparently equally fit for the post. In 
that case, the captain must be elected by lot; but the moment he 
assumes his authority, that authority makes him at once literally 
the ablest man in the boat. He has the powers which the other 
five have given him for their own good. Take another instance. 
Napoleon gained the command of the French army because he was 
the ablest general in France. But suppose every individual in the 
French army had been a Napoleon also! None the less a com- 
mander-in-chief, with his whole hierarchy of subalterns, would have 
had to be appointed—by lot if you like—and here, again, from the 
moment the lot was cast, the particular Napoleon who drew the 
straw for commander-in-chief would have been the great, the all- 
powerful Napoleon, much more able than the Napoleons who were 
corporals and privates. After a year, the difference in ability 


I 


cai 


between the men who had been doing nothing but sentry duty, 
under no strain of responsibility, and the man who had been com- 
manding the army would have been enormous. As ‘the defenders. 
of the system of Conservatism” well know, we have for centuries 
made able men out of ordinary ones by allowing them to inherit 
exceptional power and status; and the success of the plan in the 
phase of social development to which it was proper was due to the 
fact that, provided only the favored man were really an ordinary 
man, and not a duffer, the extraordinary power conferred on him 
did effectually create extraordinary ability as compared with that 
of an agricultural laborer, for example, of equal natural endowments. 
The gentleman, the lord, the king, all discharging social functions. 
of which the laborer is incapable, are products as artificial as queen 
bees. Their superiority is produced by giving them a superior 
Status, just as the inferiority of the laborer is produced by giving 
him an inferior status. But the superior income which is the 
appanage of superior status 1s not rent of ability. It 1s a payment 
made to a man to exercise normal ability in an abnormal situation. 
Rent of ability is what a man gets by exercising abnormal ability in 
a normal situation. 


How Little really goes to Ability. 


If Mr. Mallock will now take his grand total of the earnings of 
Ability, and strike off from it, first, all rent of land and interest on 
capital ; then all normal profits; then all non-competitive emolu- 
ments attached to a definite status in the public service, civil or 
military, from royalty downwards; then all payments for the 
advantages of secondary or technical education and social oppor- 
tunities ; then all fancy payments made to artists and other profes- 
sional men by very rich commonplace people competing for their 
services ; and then all exceptional payments made to men whose 
pre-eminence exists only in the imaginative ignorance of the public, 
the remainder may with some plausibility stand as genuine rent of 
natural ability. But in making these calculations, | would warn 
him against exaggerating the life incomes of the most envied pro- 
fessional men and skilled workers. It is not for nothing that highly 
educated and cultivated men go into that part of Socialism which 
already exists, the Civil Service, and leave the competitive prizes of 
the professions to be scrambled for by persons who, as a class, are by 
no means their superiors. In the Civil Service there is status ; 
there is pay from the time you begin work ; there are short hours 
and at least the possibility of good health; there is security; there 
is a pension; and there is early marriage without imprudence or 
misalliance. In the professions the beginners are forty; there is 
no security; health is impossible without the constitution of a 
thousand horses; work never ceases except during sleep and the 
holidays which follow the usual breadown two or three times a 
year ; shirking or taking things easily means ruin ; the possibilities 
of failure are infinite; and the unsuccessful professional man is 
wretched, anxious, debt-crippled, and humbled beyond almost any 








iC 


other unfortunate who has mistaken his vocation. If the income 
which a successful man makes between forty-five and sixty-five be 
spread over the preceding twenty years; if the severity of the 
brain-work as compared with that needed for any sort of routine be 
taken into account; and if a sufficient allowance be made for that 
part of the remuneration which may fairly be regarded as high 
interest on a frightfully risky investment, I think Mr. Mallock will 
begin to understand why the State can even now get into its service 
at moderate salaries men no less able than the professions attract, 
especially among those who have had a first-rate education, but who 
have to begin to support themselves immediately their education is 
finished. 

The same care should be taken in estimating those high wages 
for manual labor which sometimes make the needy gentleman envy 
the boiler-maker or the steel-smelter. Such workmen, if their 
physique is extraordinary, can make £8 a week in the prime of life. 
But the prime of life does not last very long at work that fetches 
that price. It is as well worth a strong man’s while to be a police- 
man with a sixth of such wages. Mr. Mallock was once greatly 
struck with the wages earned by the coal-hewers during the boom 
of 1872-3: he never tired of telling us stories of the dogs fed on beef- 
steaks, of the pipes with four bowls, and the rest of the evidence 
that the world is not going to be reformed offhand by giving 45 a 
week to men who have never had the chance of learning how to 
spend two. He might have added that mortality statistics bring 
out coal-mining as a healthy occupation, the truth being that when 
a miner is past his best working period, he has to fall back on some 
poorer occupation above ground, so that but few men die coal- 
miners. From one end to the other of the social scale nothing ts 
more misleading than to assume, in the case of those who are paid 
competition wages, fees, or salaries, that they receive the top price 
paid in their profession or trade constantly throughout their whole 
working life. Further, in estimating the value of large salaries and 
high fees, it is necessary to take into account how much of it is 
mere payment of the expenses involved by the social position in 
which alone they can be earned. A young man building up a 
fashionable practice as a doctor in London cannot save a farthing 
out of £1,000 a year, though his personal tastes may be so inex- 
pensive that in the Civil Service he would save £200 a year out 
of a salary of £400 without the least privation. As was pointed 
out, I think, in Fabian Essays, the servants in Dublin Castle are 
better paid than the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, because they 
can live on their wages, whereas he cannot. Mr. Mallock expresses 
the greatest scepticism as to the Fabian estimate of £800 a year 
real salary as sufficient to attract men of first-rate ability and educa- 
tion at present. No doubt it seems a trifle when one fixes one’s 
eyes on the men who are making from £10,000 to £20,000 a year 
at the professions, or on the millionaires of America. But you have 
only to look in other directions to find men of at least equal ability 
and character to whom an assured income of £800 a year would be 


17 


a fortune. At all events, the hard fact remains that neither in our 
civil nor military services do we find it necessary to pay salaries 
equal to the income of a leading financier, contractor, physician, or 
K.C. As to chemists, biologists, astronomers, mathematicians, 
economists, poets, and the higher brainworkers generally, no fairly 
prosperous publican would look at their professional incomes. 


Socialism the Paradise of the Able. 


It seems to me that Social-Democracy would, in comparison, be 
the paradise of the able man. Every step that we make towards it 
takes our industry more and miore out of the hands of brutes and 
dullards. The fellow who in the first half of the nineteenth century 
(the wicked century, as posterity will call it) could make a fortune 
out of cotton spinning only on condition that he was allowed to 
use up nine generations of men mercilessly in one generation, has 
been driven out of the trade by that pioneer of Socialism, the 
factory inspector. When the working day in England is reduced to 
eight hours by law, and the employment of a human being at less 
than a living wage is made a felony, the incompetents who cannot 
make their trade self-supporting on these humane and reasonable 
conditions will simply have to see their business slip from them into 
the hands of those who can. The sweater will have to go the way 
of the flogging schoolmaster, or the captain who can only maintain 
discipline by making his ship a floating hell. Society will keep 
raising the standard of popular welfare to which industrial manage- 
ment must be adjusted, until an employer will no more be allowed 
to kill people by overwork or poisonous processes than he is now to 
kill them by sword or gun. And at every step of the process a 
fringe of the most selfish and stupid employers will be disqualified 
and beaten off into the ranks of the employed, their customers 
going to swell the business of men with ability enough to succeed 
under the new conditions. I[f there be any employer who will be 
“ruined” by having to reduce the hours of labor of his employees 
from ten, twelve, fourteen, or sixteen to eight, or to raise their 
wages from four, twelve, or sixteen shillings a week to twenty-four 
or thirty, then the sooner he is “ruined” the better for the country, 
which is not benefited by allowing its population to be degraded 
for the benefit of duffers. Mr. Mallock is right in supposing that 
Socialism, if it wants ability, will have to pay for it, but quite 
wrong in supposing that the price will be eight-thirteenths of the 
national product. 


The Highest Work also the Cheapest. 


Iam by no means sure that an occupation so exceedingly agree- 
able to the men able to do it well as the organization of industry 
may not at last come to be cheaper in the market than the manual 
labor involved by such disagreeable and dangerous tasks as sewer- 
age, foundry work, stoking, certain kinds of mining, and so on. 
Clearly, if Mr. Mallock or myself had to choose between managing 
an iron-works for £250 a year and puddling for £500, we should 








18 


jump at the £250. In fact, it is already evident that numbers of 
the occupations now filled by the working classes will eventually 
have either to be replaced by new processes or else dropped alto- 
gether, through the impossibility of finding men or women willing 
to submit to them. Nobody anticipates any such difficulty with 
regard to the pursuits of the middle classes. Already, in many 
manufacturing towns, it is dificult to get even a half-witted 
domestic servant. The girls prefer the mill to the kitchen. But 
there is no difhculty in getting matrons for public institutions. 
row is it that Mr. Mallock, who has himself chosen a profession in 
which, unaided by clerks, he has to exercise ten times the ability of 
a stockbroker for perhaps a fifth of what the stockbroker would con- 
sider handsome remuneration, seems never to have considered the 
very first peculiarity of exceptional ability, namely, that unlike mere 
brute capacity for the drudgery of routine labor, it is exercised for 
its own sake, and makes its possessor the most miserable of men if it 
is condemned to inaction? Why, bless my heart, how did Fabian 
Essays, which Mr. Mallock admires so much, come to be written? 
Solely because the writers were able to write them, and, having the 
usual allowance of vanity, would not hide that ability under a 
bushel, though they knew beforehand that not one of them would 
ever touch a farthing of any pecuniary profit that might arise from 
the publication. If an ordinance were issued to-morrow that every 
man, from the highest to the lowest, should have exactly equal pay, 
then I could quite understand difficulties arising from every man 
insisting on being head of his department. Why Mr. Mallock 
should anticipate rather that all the heads would insist on becoming 
subordinates is more than I can reconcile with the intelligence for 
which he is famous. Asa matter of fact there would be no novelty 
about the arrangement. Equal pay for persons of the most varied 
attainments exists at present within class limits. As to chiefs 
receiving less than subordinates, a naval captain’s salary is smaller 
than that of many men in subordinate and relatively undignified 
commercial positions, 


The Economics of Fine Art. 


I might go on to make many amusing conjectures about the pro- 
digious fortunes which great artists will perhaps make under Social- 
Democracy by simply putting a turnstile at the door of their studio 
Or music-room, and charging five shillings a head for admission, 
which would presumably be freely paid by the cultured and pros- 
perous millions of that period. But the economics of Art deserve 
an essay all to themselves. The difference between the baker, who 
produces something that is destroyed by the first consumer, and 
the artist, who produces something that is none the worse after 
generations of consumers have had their fill of it, is full of matter 
for the economist. And yet none of our professors have thought 
of writing a chapter on the Royal Academy turnstiles, which coin 
shillings in defiance of all the normal laws of production and con 
sumption. 


19 


Profits and Earnings versus Rent and Interest. 


Mr. Mallock has never got away from that unfortunate economic 
discovery of his about the hundreds of millions annually paid as 
rent and dividends being created by the ability of the recipients. 
During his lifetime he has seen several thousand -millions of it pro- 
duced by labor and ability, and then handed over gratuitously to 
“the man who has only to take a pair of scissors and to clip 
coupons, or to write a receipt for the tenant who pays him rent” (1 
borrow the phrase from that excellent Conservative, the late Prince 
Bismarck). Large shares of it pass daily under Mr. Mallock’s very 
nose from adults to infants, from able men to imbeciles, from thrifty 
men to wasters, from all sorts of persons who might conceivably be 
producing something voluntarily and without compulsion for the 
community in return for what it unconditionally gives them, as 
Ruskin did, to ladies and gentlemen who make no pretence of pro- 
ducing anything. Must I again quote that well-worn passage from 
the late Professor Cairnes’s Some Leading Principles of Political 
Economy, which formulated the conclusions of the orthodox econ- 
omy on this subject, and which has never been challenged or contra- 
dicted by any economist until to-day, when Mr. Mallock dashes his 
head against it under the impression that it is a novel and dangerous 
heresy launched by a few sophistical Fabians? Here is the passage, 
which I quote with the more satisfaction, as nobody wouid tolerate 
such strong language from me :— 

That useful function, therefore, which some profound writers fancy they discover 
in the abundant expenditure of the idle rich, turns out to be a sheer illusion, Political 
economy furnishes no such palliation of unmitigated selfishness. Not that | would 
breathe a word against the sacredness of contracts. But I think it important, on 
moral no less than on economic grounds, to insist upon this, that no public benefit of 
any kind arises from the existence of an idle rich class. The wealth accumulated by 
their ancestors and others on their behalf, where it is employed as capital, no douot 
helps to sustain industry; but what they consume in luxury and idleness is not 
capital, and helps to sustain nothing but their own unprofitable lives. By all means 
they must have their rents and interest, as it is written in the bond; but let them 
take their proper places as drones in the hive, gorging at a feast to which they have 
contributed nothing. 


What is the secret of the difference between the views of Cairnes 
and those of Mr. Mallock? Simply that Cairnes knew the differ- 
ence between profits and general earnings on the one hand, and 
rent and interest on the other; whereas Mr. Mallock has jumped 
at the conclusion that because ability can produce wealth, and is 
rare, and men who are rich are also rare, these rich and rare ones 
must also be the able ones? How else can you account for them? 
How, indeed, if you happen to be still at the wrong side of that 
pons asinorum of political economy, the law of rent, with all its very 
unexpected social reactions! The Fabian essayists have done their 
best to convince Mr. Mallock that if the Duke of Westminster 
makes soo times as much as a landlord as Mr. Mallock does as an 
author, it is not because the Duke is 500 times as clever as Mr. 
Mallock. But Mr. Mallock is modest, and will have it so; and I will 
worry him no further about it. 








ZO 


Government of the Many by the Few. 


Mr. Mallock is much impressed by the fact that throughout 
history, from the shepherd kings to the nitrate kings and beef barons, 
we find the few governing the many. [If by this he means that the 
few have ever been able to raise the many to their own level, then 
he is blind to the historical tragedy of greatness. But it 1s true — 
that such organization as the many have been capable of has always 
been directed for them, and in some cases imposed on them, by the 
few. And | have no doubt that under Social-Democracy the few 
will still organize, and that, too, without having to consider at 
every step the vested interests of moneyed noodledom in “the 
system of Conservatism.’’ Well has Mr. Mallock pointed out that 
the evolution of society produces, not anarchy, but new types of ruler, 
and, I would ask him to add, new forms of government. Once tt 
was the first William with his sword and his barons. Then it was 
the first Edward, with his commission of guo warranto, bending the 
necks of those barons. But yesterday it was the cotton king with. 
his capital and his ogreish factory: to-day it is the [factory Code 
bending the necks of the ogre cotton kings. To-morrow it may be 
—who knows ?—an able Labor Ministry, backed up by a bureaucracy 
nursed on Fabian Essays. But Mr. Mallock’s historic general- 
ization will hold good: the few will still organize the many. That 
great joint-stock company of the future, the Social-Democratic State, 
will have its chairman and directors as surely as its ships will have 
captains. I have already pointed out that ships must have captains, 
even when there is an absolute level of ability on board, just as an 
arch must have a keystone. I cast back to that now only for the 
sake of reminding Mr. Mallock that this fact of the direction by the 
few of the many which he finds involved in all forms of social organ- 
ization, has no necessary connection with any natural superiority 
on the part of the few. Indeed, Mr. Mallock will find it impossible 
to prove that the governing few have ever, in any generally valid 
sense, been the ablest men of their time. James I. governed Shake- 
spear: was he an abler man? Louis XV. and his mistresses governed 
Turgot: was it by their superiority in ability or character? Was 
Mr. Balfour an abler man than Mr. Asquith until the last general 
election? and has Mr. Asquith been the abler since? ‘Have all the 
men who have governed Mr. Mallock been abler than he is? 

These questions are nonsensical because, as Mr. Mallock himself 
has remarked, ability is not an abstract thing: it always means ability 
for some definite feat or function. There 1s no such thing as the 
ablest man in England, though there is such a thing as the ablest 
high jumper, the ablest hammer thrower, the ablest weight lifter, 
etc. When we come to more composite questions, such as the ablest 
financier, or strategist, or organizer of some particular industry, we 
call that man the ablest who has most of the qualities which happen 
to be supremely important, wader existing conditions, 1n finance, 
strategy, or the particular industry in question. Change the condi- 
tions, and quite another set of men will be the ablest. Every year 


21 


wives us afresn example of the fact that a man who has succeeded 
conspicuously in some enterprise in America may fail ignominiousiy 
in it in England, the reason being that he is an able man for the 
purpose under American conditions, and an incompetent one under 
English vonditions. The Owenite Socialists who had made fortunes 
in business, tailed co make good their reputation even for common 
sense in cheir attempts to organize Owenism. Or, to take one of 
Mr. Mallock’s own illustrations, the able man of feudal England was 
quite a different man from the able man of commercial England. At 
least, let us hope so. As to Mr. Mallock’s exceedingly unhistoric 
apprehensions that the said able men will refuse to exercise their 
ability for good pay and pension from Social-Democracy, unless they 
are also provided with opportunities of investing their savings in 
order to make idlers of their children, I doubt whether the public 
will take the alarm. He may depend on it that Social-Democracy, 
like all other Ocracies, will have a great deal more trouble with its 
idle and worthless members than with its able ones. 


The Incentive to Production. 


‘Men,’ says Mr. Mallock, ‘‘will not exert themselves to produce 
income when they know that the State is an organized conspiracy to 
1ob them of it.’’ My impression hitherto has been that the whole 
history of civilization is the history of millions of men toiling to pro- 
duce wealth for the express purpose of paying the tax-collector and 
meeting the State-enforced demands of landlords, capitalists, and other 
masters of the sources of production. Mr. Mallock might as well 
deny the existence of the Pyramids on the general ground that men 
will not build pyramids when they know that Pharoah is at the head 
of an organized conspiracy to take away the Pyramids from them as 
soon as they are made. Are not those very rents and dividends over 
which Mr. Mallock has so ingeniously gone astray, produced to-day 
by workers of all grades, who are compelled by the State to hand 
over every farthing of it to “drones,” as Professor Cairnes called 
them? But the Attorney-General does not retire from the Bar 
because he has to hand over part of his fees to the lord of the plot of 
English soil on which his private house is built; nor did the factory 
girl refuse to toil, amid poisonous fumes of whitelead and phosphorus, 
because from ten to thirty per cent. of what she and the rest of the 
factory staff produced was taken from them and handed over to 
shareholders who never saw the factory, and whose original contri- 
butions to the cost of its erection had been replaced out of its own 
produce long before. When the State said, to Attorney-General and 
factory girl alike, “Submit, starve, or go to prison; which you 
please,” they submitted, that being the most comfortable of the three 
alternatives. A Social-Democratic State could “rob” (the word is 
Mr. Mallock’s, not mine) in the same fashion if its constituents, 
against their own interests, gave it a mandate to do so. If‘ the idle 
rich”? (Professor Cairnes again) were taxed so heavily as to leave 
them nothing but bare agents’ fees for the collection of their incomes 
and their transfer to the Inland Revenue Department, there is no 





ne 


a2 


reason to suppose that the production of income would be decreased 
by a single farthing through any sulking of the despoiled spoilers. 


If a man is producing nothing, nobody can be the worse for a reduc-. 


tion of his incentive to produce. The real difficulty in the way of 
taxing unearned incomes to extinction, is the impossibility of a 
seizure of £800,000,000 every year by a Government which, as at 
present organized, has no means of immediately restoring that sum 
to general circulation in wages and salaries to employees of its own. 
This difficulty has been explicitly dealt with in Fabian Essays (page 
189, etc.), in a passage which Mr. Mallock’s criticisms do not affect. 


The Long and Short of the Matter. 


The long and short of the matter is that Mr. Mallock has con- 


fused the proprietary classes with the productive classes, the holders 
of ability with the holders of land and capital, the man about town 
with the man of affairs. In 1894 I advised him to take up the works 


of the Individualist American economist, General F. A. Walker, who,- 


before the Fabian Society was born, expounded the economics of 
ability in a manner to which neither Fabians nor Conservatives have 
raised, or need raise, any objection. He did not take my advice 
until he went to America and was accused of borrowing from the 
General by somebody who must surely have understood neither of 
the twain. But now that he has read him, he can appreciate the 
following passage from the same author’s Money in its Relation to 
Trades and Industry (London, 1880, pp. 90-91) :— 

The attitude of both laborers and capitalists [during a period of five years indus- 
trial depression in the United States] has given the”strongest testimony that the 
employing classes are completely the masters of the industrial situation. To them 
capital and labor are obliged alike to resort for the opportunity to perforin their 
several functions; and whenever this class, in view of their own interests, refuse that 
opportunity, capital and labor remain unemployed, incapable of the slightest initiative 
in production. | 


There you have your skilled economist. He does not romance 
about capitalists inventing Atlantic steamers: he shews you the 
capitalist and the laborer running. helplessly, the one with his 
money, the other with his muscle, to the able man, the actual 
organizer and employer, who alone is able to find a use for mere 
manual deftness, or for that brute strength or heavy bank balance 
which any fool may possess. And the landlord must put his acres 
into the same cunning hands. The landlord, capitalist, and laborer 
can none of them do without the employer: neither can he do 
without land, capital, and labor. He, as the only party in the trans- 
action capable “of the slightest initiative in production,” buys his 
three indispensables as cheaply as he can; pays the price out of 
what he makes out of them ; and keeps the balance as his profit. If 
a joint-stock company offers him as much by way of salary as 


managing director as he can make on his own account, he has no. 


interest in refusing the post. Ifthe Government, or a municipality, 
offers him equivalent advantages as a State or municipal ofhcer, he 
will not scorn their offer from a sentimental attachment to ‘the 


23 


system of Conservatism.” The Fabians have shewn that the situa- 
tion is changing in such a way as to set our governing bodies, local 
and central, outbidding the private employer for the services of the 
laborer, and competing with the private capitalist and landlord for 
the services of the employer, whilst concurrently confiscating, by 
familiar constitutional processes, larger and larger portions of the 
land and capital that has fallen into idle hands. Mr. Mallock, in 
reply, bids the Conservatives be of good cheer, since he can prove 
that nearly all wealth is the product of ability and not of labor—no 
great consolation to those Conservatives who deal in neither, but 
only in land and capital. And to set at rest any lingering mis- 
givings which his economic demonstrations may have left, he adds 
that the gobbling up of proprietary incomes by Social-Democracy, 
on Fabian lines, is not “fundamental Socialism,” but only “ inci- 
dental and supplementary Socialism,” which, rightly considered, are 
“really examples and results of a developing Individualism.” This 
explanation has been of great comfort to the Fabians. Whether it 
will be equally relished by the Conservatives is a question upon 
which I am too modest to offer an opinion. 


NotTe.—The authorities for the figures given on pages 14 and 22, with many other 

articulars as to the distribution of income in this country which should be in the 

ee ae of every citizen, will be found in Fabian Tract No. 5, Facts for Socialists 
Fabian Tract No. 7, Capital and Land, should also be read in this connexion, 








SELECTION OF FABIAN PUBLICATIONS. 


(Complete list sent on application.) 


THE COMMONSENSE OF MUNICIPAL TRADING. By BERNARD 
SHAW. 1/6net; postage 2d. 

MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS. By R. B. SUTHERs. 1/6 net, postage 2d. 

THE DECAY OF CAPITALIST CIVILISATION. By Sipnery and 
BEATRICE WEBB. Cloth, 4/6; paper, 2/6; postage 4d. 

HISTORY OF THE FABIAN SOCIETY. By Epwarp R. Preasz. New 
edition. 1925. 6/-, postage 5d. 

FABIAN ESSAYS. (1931 Edition). 2/6; postage, 4d. 

KARL MARX. By Haroxp J. Laski. 1/-; post free, 1/1. 

TOWARDS SOCIAL DEMOCRACY? By Sipney WzsB. Is. n., post. 1d 


FABIAN TRACTS and LEAFLETS. 
Tracts,éeach 16 to 53 pp., price 1d., or 9d, per dos., unless otherwise stated. 
Leaflets, 4 pp. each, price ld. for three copies, 23. per 100, or 20]- per 1000. 
The Set, ro/-; post free 10/9. Bound in buckram, 15/-; post free 15/9. 


I. General Socialism in its various aspects. 

TRACTS.—229. National Finance. By F. W. PrtTuick-LAWRENCE, M.P. 2d. 
216. Socialism and Freedom. By H. J. Lasxi1, 2d. 200. The State in 
the New Social Order. By Haroup J. Lasxi. 2d, 180. The Philosophy 
of Socialism. By A. CruTron Brock. 159. The Necessary Basis of 
Society. BySmipNey WEBB, 146. Socialism and Superior Brains. By 
BERNARD SHAW. 2d. 142. Rent and Value. 107. Socialism for Million- 
aires. By BmrRnargp SHaw. 2d. 133. Socialism and Christianity. By Rev. 
PERCY DEARMER. 2d. 72. The Moral Aspects of Socialism. By 81pnNpy 
Bann. 51. Socialism: True and False. By 8. Wesps.2d. 45. The Im- 
possibilities of Anarchism. By G. B, 8Haw. 2d. 5. Facts for Socialists, 
Thirteenth Edition, 1926. 6d. 41. The Fabian Society: its Early History, 
By BERNARD SHAW, 


{1 —Applications of Socialism to Particular Problems. 

TRACTS.—231. The Local Government Act, 1929: How to Make the Best of It. 
By SipNEY WEBB. 2d. 230. Imperial Trusteeship. By The Rt. Hon. Lorp 
OviviER, K.C.,M.G. 2d. 228. Agriculture and the Labour Party. By G. 
T. GARRATT. 2d. 227. Labour’s Foreign Policy. By Mrs. H. M. Swanwick, 
2d. 226. The League of Nations. By BERNARD SHAW. 2d, 223. The 
British Cabinet: A Study of its Personne], 1901-1924. By Haroun J. 
LASkI. 3d. 220. Seditious Offences. By E.J.C. Ne3Ep. 3d. 196. The Root 
of Labour Unrest. By SipNny Wess. 2d. 194. Taxes, Rates and Local 
Income Tax. By Rozsrrt Jonus, D.Sc. 2d. 187. The Teacher in Politics. 
By Sipnsy Webs, 2d. 183. The Reform of the House of Lords. By 
SIDNEY WEBB. 


[1l.—Local Government Powers: How to use them. 

TRACTS.—225. Education Committees: Their Powers and Duties. By H. 
SAMUELS. 3d. 218. The County Council: What it Is and What it Does. 
By H. SAMUELS. 190. Metropolitan Borough Councils. By C, R. ATTiEz, 
M.A. 2d. 191. Borough Councils. By C. R. Attnen, M.A. 2d. 189. Urban 
District Councils. By C. M. Luoyp, M.A. 2d. 62. Parish & District 
Councils. 2d. 137. Parish Councils & Village Life. 2d. 

IV.—On the Co-operative Movement. 
202. The Con:titutional Problems of a Co-operative Society. By Sipnny 
WEBB, 2d. 203. The Need for Federal Re-organisation of the Co- 
operative Movement. By Sipney WeEBB, 2d. 204. The Position of 
Employees in the Co-operative Movement. By Linian Harris. 2d. 
205. Co-operative Education. By Linian A. DAWSON. 2d. 206. The Co- 
operatorin Politics. By ALFRED Barnes, M.P. 2d. 


V.—Biographical Series. In portrait covers, 3d. 

221. Jeremy Bentham. By Victor CoHEN, 217. Thomas Paine. By 
KiInGsLEY Martin, 215. William Cobbett. By G.D.H.Cons. 199. William 
Lovett. 1800-1877. By BARBARA HAMMOND. Robert Owen, Idealist. By 
C. E. M. Joap. 179. John Ruskin and Social Ethics. By Prof. Epirx 
MORLEY. 165. Francis Place. By St. JoHN G. Ervine. 166. Robert 
Owen, Social Reformer. By Miss Hutchings. 167. William Morris and 
the Communist Ideal. By Mrs. TownsHEND. 168 JohnStuart Mill. By 
JULIUS West 174. Charles Kingsley and Christian Socialism. By C, 
EK. VUuvIaAMy. 


Printed by G. Standring, 17& 19 Finsbury St., London, E.C. and published by the Fabian 
Society, 11 Dartmouth St. Westminster London. $.W.1. 












































— ee we ——____- 











BOSTON COLLEGE 


J uniiagn 


9954 
















































































































































mm 1 fe ' a tol = a ~ 
a Ke Se a Pate ee ee) LP hd to J ¢4 | ty, a Ge Se 
Sano oe, Pr ag I aos oan Pra he ae Ye OL Pot a ee ee oe AA ih ee ee 7 ' tJ ee a le th, Amal MN aR ANE i el an a Oe Rn Te! I all ag) ing , iz 
Cred te « a Ct. oe) O Oo U eae oot @e8 4 e ; bd  ¢ * e « eS SS en ' - a a. 
O e @ Oe Foe) ty e e0@ ae) ) ar a a eee ee e ° r e ba = LS al Db} 
Pel ytee Ce a) ¢ 00° 4. @ ee RIOR Ry a a Mel ine e o 0te'o ae Fine ey acai ees ai Ci call: ares ee ee a . Si 
f ra A ! @ere ry Ca eee) =—eoseeeoe e oe $ 
wo rns IO: a Seabed Re reterete te le oo 0 e ete ote a Pan pn ROL ae Cee Ph le sag ae *e i F i. 
nN oo ' A n ae) C A hd Sy See Se eet ry ee e@ i a! 
Laas POPE reat hie OD e 3 Ke ere eae. eee AAS eer eT He my Sree et aoeHe Se Bee eo 0a Ce ee ee se 6 ‘ 
° e+ cme Pr i ee Sr ee oe) Se € Cs ee ee Ae BS t a i i alee Pe LE bd epee Py "5 bd 
ad 2945 77 oe ae er) ee ee Ce Cm 2 i re . Pr ee ee ee @e#e08 o21ee@ * * 
est) por eo e.0 ¢ @ s we Cw ee ae ee ee tal OE A ad ye a ee ie e AS z rs re rt se as © . . °; ; 
i a aee Of Ce ee eee eee ¢@¢ e Ce ee ee re Cf , 
M oe Py Ore iadad O Ath ree aa eee te eran Oe AD Oe a die re a Ory OO ek dy a eee etree er , Fs e @ a 
= Sd Pe Oe me we, *,°g%7*,°5° © an “a Aan ee F tae ei ee a eer ® eae NS i Me cl Rh) als ba ia 
| td oe. ¢ oe eos 2 6 Pare xs 9 @e* Oe ee ed . A a¢@ ® Sf @e@e@ep re ee ° Cm . « e 
oy ne re ae te Te SO a OE Se Ok ee Pe RR Oe ronda err wy od ie S . 6% 
sore eo Rie of ee ry i | ry r e? sea at caretbbe ag 6 8 °° + _— ee 5 e ee) CO ry ° B rs 
tree 2 * Sd Ce ee et ) Pe Sed oe*@@ of Ae se fC ee ee re ee Ca) t & ‘<¢ ee ee Ci ® r a ¢@ e 
Cy ore ie) t e r a Fae) Cee ee ee Oe ee i at be ee hee a ° 
., = 4 Pde AA) J a = 1 ba Mia Sd . S s¢ « errs ek oe ee | bad ee rar oy +, i i of . M 
qeer 6 Py ep gh ae *, ie 6 F x rt x eee moee ee of eex s é * A ee FS ® 
® ne et ee ee Be iad) oe e eo 6 °@ Cy 7 ee Ce ar ee ee ee ee [ee C Ct ee bed e ® ee a) a ed ° 
a. a Cr cy Le te a o8e || by eae AWAY A Le e@ t (DE I IES SG ILD a oF OO oOo 2 OOOH OS J Oe eke a a ete! Cr r ° 
t a ae i? LACIE CK OG A Ie ee) ms er ra 0 5 © r Ande 
WO te Ce SL) +o PS PO be re be or De Se Se OO e ee vpohoevreo genre eo e >.¢ Sy . ; r 
:. Te. %» 0060 8% “ BP te oe > A oo +e 0 ee tO) oy A Oa On) re s 6 a | i “ e 
rs a OO oe ee ee) r Cee PT o ee e% cd Ce ee ee rm Ae tae ee —eread Cr Cd e 
eee Pat i Cx ie Pk ee SP he a ee ar es ° e 
7, es Bein BY dhe re Oe a a X e020 a A Ot ad i coe a) a Le res Pat F A eee r : 
. 2 ‘ 
4 EE rs 7° SI a de erin ee C hd + he i ee Pe ® see © a ty & e 
’ 7 ® ry * ry r 
IO Ae : ; Ps oN “ete ee PAP xs Ory SO hd re i A ae wees ee C Pepe A i “cs a *#e ome a6 + td 
ar) ora re) NO I Sl oe led ara are ee Oe ee ha he eee Py ° a) p 
e Tr : a A Oe OA See@eeneeoo ¢ ee % Cy Ci Ca et ® bd 
. Reet iW rad 4 ind OR oa Cs ed te se ° ne e eT. wr Oe Pe Fn nd Pp ° o a 
° J 
° od a my e ee eee Ce ee Co en ee) Cf ° p r 
A O oe Rs Militas | ON SO Ie a OR Piedad ler The a tat Se ee * er 
e diet baad td elava’ole states. IRR wi ° Pi Fe ee a diel ae he he eee ae) Ps A -— ° Pe ir 
® we eet * bad ot he ane he oe SP OOM Windncund a ir Pee) ari ar oe et ee See Pra ee ee) ® 5 
Ca oT el Le *! Ay bs Add 3 or > er - i \ ne o. tn) i. Ce ee Ln) 
, bd AY ’ i} = i} ry Pa ° = 
a Bo ) obp 0 Cm ry re ee ee 2 ° ry ee e ee a Ca ny 
oe Kye aS ® toe Cr Rs os SOC ee “4 @ th id A 
= Py a a) 
° IOC Porro Dee at 2 AE PR eg aoe we ore Pr eee ce ee oe oe 
Ce ie ee U PR J @ A ROO Aa R ae Oy eo °° =, ee er * x 
x , A ee s pA GR, °° #,¢ A e » bd eee ma! ene eee ee @ ee r ee > CS TT C 
SO Cm a Ms ees -° iy . Ko oy a BS i Pgh al AS PORCH Rte ie 98 Ay oy Ca ° ccs 
ha Se r) RR A rad FS Oa RR Par Des . ny ts oe af ae a en a 7 
e me) Pe ed ° od PS Se dial at a ae Ld eo 869,0,.9 ! bd bd Lm | ® re tJ aoe +2080 La e° ° ry ry Py 
PPP ry te oo Me Oe so a ae Ce) aed A Ce ee ee ed en &s C tad ® Sd bd ' 
OK ROR Pi OE a er a 2 Re nol eect ded la SLT I I aE, Nid ial ee? ° ee Oe) MG oa o ° 
a é a) 5° the Ky OC a ee ae oe = feed i pe On Bn A pete ere Oe ee oe ae aan e rar rn 
* Cy AOU aE Oe en ae AT te ROCs ok dl celia . a Set ae py Ie ee 5 - 
J 
ee ae | + - J “ye A e Cy ee A @eeoer8 @ 8 . ee . Cy * 
Stl Zane pe A Perey) re ad o.° ee ae A a SI P| be Oey a4 Ls "ee e etetsta? oe . hd a Lu > paar re ry Ade ee ry Ce ae Cos Ti DPS a@ee + . ee a = . a A ° ° 
ove i 0 e504 @ ee RO a) A yw er Mr a ae i ee et ee Oe Oe tee oe oe Cd ee 6 e eS ie ry oo wr e 
J Cy (an Par ie Tie ie oe Oe ee ee e¢e e * e eoeoe Ce] a ae ie oe ie | eo, C ° oD 
od ° ® * eo 8 {a { Ce Ld ty ee er oe ee @o~4 @ Ord 00 0 7,0 +0 9% 2°, 8 A ry ) 
Aid aa ie ER he eo et <n ae eee eae) ° eee Fle OPS ne Sie MO AD @e nN © A 
Cm} ® e ° wm et ee © Ch ee he ee ee 4 cs a Ya ee ed ° a ° — « " eo 
a Cr a ed PB é Pr Mee . oa o 98 a) +o ge" * ae oe Of e Ce) Ce CY a | r ed Ce | tn Cf sf 
‘ es ene be Se OE MID oe Oe th eee Ps Or ® . s s ry n 
a ey Pore an. er) Ld 
te Soave: STU Sa een Oe oe 4 Te Be a 0 wnat e atoms ere Bre a? Ce dha Ie os ee . 5 - era . m 
. = 
° a Pr a ee A SO Se are erseeseeteoseore © Par ee > hae ee ° nS 
eo @ oa 8 a ee 3 pede n ari eo ° . i er) Cm ® A ooo r rs ° Oa 
an ec erecees ee ' oO ee * C ° ° oa) * so? oseee8 e¢ *@ 
ep PAPE TAD C Cr Oe et Cte eee ee Pare Te ya or Oe 6 Ma * coor ® be 
Ca ad Lh eee 8 at) 3 eore Poet et ht et ee om) ee or) Poe ee oot o ® nd 
“me 4n0 @ 6 @ O80 Pe) ee ee A Ca eC e ° woe eee "a ° ° 
Ce ce ee e ee ee Py a) ae ee a a Cn on es ee) id M7 
7 Crea) ee i C ¢ e@ ne) 5 ao “eo hele P 5 ar 
ky py oes Em oe ee | oe Ps a ee sd AB oe AR ae ue ae Pa or ee | 7 " 
a hate aes. WR a mira ens jew St So 
e rn 
& 2 Lf e ° 
eo oe oc sm oretp-c® ro: *e e er oe Se Ne PR oni oe oO a e Py ae abe ae ‘ iB = 
eee UA PG a: ee teat © oe” ORD MOC AOS RO a i" sje * © M ‘ 5 
ys epee be y an Py A a ee A ete. Se ee nd 3 rs Pas ye) — a P “- P 
of Lo en ee) C oe * ee ® * 
ete ON ed Ce * ee 8 Cn) eo oo e' 
ere woe ; Rd i epee Yat ey td ne a i Me as Ore a nea a Se oe 
as tod bade e tae ies Be tae *, tr RP ag Ce Moe one Pre odie St and Ra ol i) * ng 
oe eee oteesr ® eee e8 @ * oun o 8 e 4 e a) ° FE aol ° 
A bd Ma § J PS A a ee) Peis 5 oetete caret : Is ee be ae ats Pine peas a oe Pry ee * an ae ee ee ee Pe ty ae is ° . a) D e 
Sy bd Lad ® » eee were 6 Ls SAR gee Fe oe = “ 
me Ce ee ee 2. td a e ° ta * ® ry od as a a) F ns Ca 
tes e e i ee ee ee 2 Y 5 : * 
wy a & eho rae a Ce i * Le ee ® 
ihe ed ty Chee) PD IRS oa eeede0e © ef ee Cd Co A e ty 
epee ts sree oe ee ee ee CC So A NG MI) I Ld ee 4 A oJ Ld | nd MPR os N 
. Ce ° tied * ’ Of 
) r 
ae . Dae ae es eet tee eK te oi Ce oh pa . Le | a) bd p 5 . ° . 
re . - 
tyes voy eer ry BP tl i a ce pe % oar Ms a ae CY Me © 3 
Re eo ol nd Pee Peet eee Tr Oe ee eS rs ar r ° ee 
a a ee eet 3 oo 2 9's oo 2 evs wk i e Por a ae ae ee eo eo¢ 
Le ects 0 ae A i ¢°@ ad ee48 a we Ps eae 
eh oe Pe Wi A or o* rs ae ee i 2) a 
tial “ee 02 oe 8a Ce ee ed es a ee ed Ld Ce ee oe ° a ee . Ce 
se eo @ehoe ta Ae a) CP ee Re ® Cd ‘ SPER - 
CS ie ee be i one aed > ] Pe ee a ote +4 ° ® @ 8 jee Co ° . ee 
a oe ewe Pred [ee ed ae eo? eRe CH Oe ML beads Bd id ad t ef rT Ca) e ie s@ ? Ad ? 
; * Rec ay wey Jatt oe dD a Re e r se AL ae , ry ra Cy ry ay ° D 
th s+ . —* part 8 ri o ° CO 
x’ AY on ets neh ORES Ps +08 ener eet Pareto ti) a’ pe AAD he he * * %e bd bs ere tee - mae i Cen te) ee @ eo 00° 
Or tet Ur POR a ie La ary ee in Ree ee a ee is ee ae Oe ee 
ie ad La) OO Oe SLR e CO ° ° e . r er ee ob eee ore Sees a er a ee a es ca eee 
OE MC re ee Oe FO , C * er i me pe . oe ¢@¢e Or ow "e , 5 S : Pe 
~s ,@0 ¢ Re ey $04 4,6 ° . ° bay thd Sa PO PA a we oe ee ry 
ee oe bo @ Oe vere e er be D re it OO OT Oe Oe we ee ° i ee ee Oe ry Oe ee r a er ee oe | se 
4 oe o>, (Ee ee ee Ce ee OE 3 Oe Piet i ber BC he Pe DD ry dove peoars eee F be ee ee = weee Cs a) ee 6 Ci my e r ' ry 
* Oar a ieee ORT fe eG ) ht ee Cm Pi eee het Oe ee ee * La 
SORE ar tik! + ° Pe one Ce) a Cy *. ry ea) Ce A rs = Pwr oa 
+ & o> ae O * « Pe 3 Ld hr ee) Cpl a2 ee) a a) a ® Ad 
CA edhe Cx ee peueee > md ost oo Ow ra Se te ee OO eis bie - ° oe - oe Pe CY A ry ry ade 
ee 2 BAe eswe @8 & 8 Ee ey ek, 
ye Wn e ° Ca D OT td el * fA -. ms - : s 
OC rn 
o s : oes Ree eh Par LP ide Ng Pits a ae ‘ ae Of 
J - * 
a o¢ ) en 2 
i Pd AAG Rte og Ph AEC eee otek” Ee aie ae) oe or te Cy td oe Ce ee oe Cd = ® a 
+ SD de See ee ee ee Oe BD Sere eee ee ee rs " ee ® S 
ye ee ee eee Pg a roe we A > C «,° ® A t x . © ; rs 
OO whet stotetate ee ee A ae bh Meh bo? Lhe Se e ri ; e a a Phd Pe oe wh 
r TO ee 8 St ee SO ee a en . oistere 
o ope oe oe tf o A ry OO ee vv. A 
oe ed Ce Ce ae 4 ° i * 7 o) Co td 
Of Ly ee ee ee ed fd "eo ve Ce we ee) eo et ee ee - ee ee a) a a 
ry a os 9° ep e eoeoe re ee ay iw) * ee nee te ° 
A 7 a ln Hh 2 ° , a) > Che we ee ee oe e a Sarno oa a PR * os A a e¢ 
+ e 8 e ae el ® Ce f 6 Oe ee ee rd i ad + Le add *e¢ . 
Pit ene 7 ot ee 1 LPS ot? e t . RO Se erry th Ya ee OY Coe ee Ere md ¢ Pad Penn Ce ee e M4 ° r 
mo ty Stes Ph ° aK rig Rom eo PR NS ons Ce ed ad Ce ee ee eee r we eee) q4eete ee oe he | oy Le Te aoe ees ® ate Pf 
ot hd Pe i Po bn eee | urecers: ¥ ose > . EOE INE A. Py M. seem weer es ee ere re tes = -/* ° Oh) ° >. +2 s 
Se ee b OO, LS Se Fe ar) ee Car ° erie Se Be ee er ee 2 ° tad A ~ s bd 
FF Ae ee pA 2° on Pa’ ae iy ee He ne a eee) AA ar a) Lr eee RR Ped RO URE oto se r) oe r emo & a =e ° A . Ae $ ® 
ARS: RI CdS ae Ae eM ca) oe Ot TRUER ye Folie, be ee Ds i er CO OO Pace Ce ce ed eo a 
® e ent shad oo 6 ot ob . Ce ry ant PO RO ° ee e@etw grt a we i ee e = ° er he r ib dePt 0 owe Oo ob os eos eoreeonoae ry tr e Of te ee ed ® Ld e * © 
Se Hs le PB : ee Me rer ar = erm AO ee ee A z Of es + rare acgreeee ee he oe ee eee ee aio ° a OF e ° ° oa) 
Mae ay MN teatro oe hte t ey Le be hes SOC Mh at a ee ada Ste re ORL ene ae ae eC meee °° ee °° tl ee * a 
Pee te to De Te ee a be 5 eat ° rs Pa OO i ek Oe o 2-o 0g 8 oo eae e Sat SOK IC e a) 
at ee SASS a 5 I Ad Pde Dei dao oh heen gente bo ba 5 OP POR. i re ed re) SO. ee er ee oe ee ee ee re ee Oe ee e oe oa a Re! a r a i , = a a | a 
eo Pe ° + [a we) O . . a) C Co id 
4 £6" Ped > 4% Pare oe) be prota eta erh’s Ma Paes re Cantal ath ate a s ots DR PIC ie aka rary os aa es eer od Pit a *.°5° rt . > od oe Lad nd o¢ L. i bd 
oie MO 2 a OE I we Ta PRO a ae. Fa *, BS) aad SPO x Py °° ° ,° eet oe’ es La res +; ve a Mts e 6 C Ce a) rf Pe a) 
(oh! RS re IA bd Lt ee ld id es A ee) A Pak CAL Ct ne beat Si oY Be I oa . i ° ca bd Ln i Co Se ed se 
ne y oyS Pe ee ee ee t 9,949. ° 059,% 5° C J iD Pe 2 ae . a wr tk MOM a dd cidade bl hd RY ° re A e r 
+. 6.@ 8 ® o O's Se o-0¢ © rf A od cs o¢@ .@ £068 6 oy ee ° rere) fe CI ° ) ee eee e ® ° C Y e 
t= A a J a) r) e * oY ecehaeovtee eee e¢@-e r Y we . . O02 6 @ © eee a a e@e¢ees a an) s o ® + 7 
Jade! TR og MO! Le a 100 Rh ad A 5 pe SPAR Osis a ee be See ee o,¢ ene of Pee ae eae ° P = oe P A 
PT ee : o aos aR lt me tk Ms ahs SOIC See eae OG ae mye! ear — M a Md ae > eo 4% Lh dh Cc tell nd ad ds Sih oct Ds: alk ie . ~ 
Mas ee ee ee te ee bb od iy Fad . a. ee ee CS e r era wy ra or te ee a ° te* @ A Cad ° of A 
wR ces) i) an F A ik Ey et Ck I ON rs eevee 008 2 +i hr ) ary rs Pr 
lia OC ad pig isl Poteet ba PL CN ee Ie ee ad be ed era ear rn oye b Ca a eve eee ¢ Js a 
\ a ee PRT RRO SUS Ce oe Oe ee) Aare vers S ne Ph e eee a are a) Te ee et Cf e ) ® ® ee 4 J ° 
Ce de oe be) a ee oe ee b 0 6 oe § 9,9 .° oo? e¢ Cet ee See oe on ee @ Sy , es ) ee @8% ° e ?* ce ° Po a ee ee | ry ° ee of ° 
ry oe aes ' eo? e'* ep Ces > ‘@ @ 68 ott (et eS ee te ° ry e ie 7 ry wy 
oe ote Cane eo etetbie os 8 + Oe 9 OED SO Pe ht Sh rit a a a Pare ie Se Ce See ee O A 
= 0), ° ° = et aes aL Pa LIE . NE hes f ry * ee. Tre e¢@ *5 s° e r + eee @eee a @eo=s ° fry ry a . o Cr 
7} iy r 5 é a) P 
ios a teaeead Se! ts te ee ree AeA Ie OCR POT at pape A OC nd eat mar OOK ee i ee ee we ee My hs 
/ ee Ld Ld 9 ct Te Se Ps Ja et ah Pe A a 7 Ce ae ee ee rere ee pom oe Ce ee oe ee ee Ln * ® ° A 
“yp lee "9 o! sees ¢¢ sto gee a SA PRI CH eos see RPO Re Ce °. eer ee ee i ee eT } a ee ry Ls LL of PTS a ee ry ee 
ee ay o ‘ : n <e ee A oa L be ovsneoe bt so % ry a’ PY : A s 
>. a Cy aoe ° en . ad Cy ° Ca ° 5 
me i e MEL ani ea Ot hte wie 8 08 % AR hs as ee: ined ed arora fe o> “4 a) Aid Ca *» ® bd og Py | 
ooh, 9k Pd A eo D A) ° . , RS Ae eereerregeces CY « ac oa CO oa a) 
D ry ° my a ES 
vtec t “ AP rd STS Si tt Aol A Cee ey ee) *. mares abe A OE PP no BI Pe Pe RA as Cr ee Rane ry . ae 
Od oe ee eee eset t= FC rl sr ol Ee TOR, Li i org * oC ee ee ee Coe > re ee ld Ce 
* ve e “ee etme * Obie be eee ee ee r ae ed ee Oe ee a ee) Ce ee nd  ¢ i 
C3 hr ee oe Oe ee r de CY La eer ° ee ee ry ihe oe ee ee Oe ee ee ee 2 ee i a oe 
e * FOU t re Y Ce ee ed tae Oe ek eae ee e Lf oo > ee cf oe . ed * ee Sd ee ® ee 
[ees Fh. r eo 8 Ce ae eon ° * o Cm ry e 7 ry oe ¢@ @e.8 eo oe 8 Py YY ry ® > ry Sy eo 
EOS So Me aoe) e ae) rae fad i ae oo Coe ae SS 2 ee 0 B.0.5 6 nna. eye Sie Se ee ,Y eS rt 7 ° Cf od Ce 
e ® 
Lo cy ° - ° ° ° e 
‘ A IR a a SOR mar > fe *,° ° Fila A ee eae ae Ry rs vt ; S ry ; ry ar 4 a or o. AE Cla La er a ° a : 
Pe Ta Pena re J P © oye Cd ¢ 6° ed o.4 7 > ? vo etee ee. ets Ms ae Co ee 8 od i ee 
eos pie ee sho yF 3 se e & Cf Pd Ca tS t Ce re ee a a a) ry 6 a Sa ry 
8 ry 4 Ves weed eo ae ee od Ce Ly a * Poe ee ee ee ee ot eos 8 a re ee a ° a ® 
Je tad rae POP ce er, SE a veh adhd dp Od AO Oe Ce ee ee ad x Ct sara! Ce ee 2 2 nd Cr 2 ed . 
Are AA iy ee 4 as t rr Poe bs a ry ee! RI es °° Ps pig Re Ars oe! an Of Ae [a *@¢ Ld ae i es e : Co A ti a) eee @ @ ee oY 
ee rhe - OO tae teh ohs* 4%” e foe bs : : rm eh ae tan esas ay Pe eee tee ” es s 
RUS Als PO eee a Fes ® 5 A oy ad ieee a O Sf A Ce ee ee @oeed @ oe 04 eee + > aa rae a <5 
e.e.8 2 6 Ce ee ee ee 2 re ed ee @¢ [i ee ed Ld ’ ® 2 ° PY a a er te oo & * ee Sm) . cg a ee 
A i ee o tor es ee ee ee SP ee * bd ee ee ee ee ee me 
rs a ee ® a 3 el ae PO | tJ Ce ee ed ® 
ee ee ee eC Pap Wed het Ur $4 Se ar Pat ne) 4 oe eee Ome Per ry ae » e 
ob ore op ® By ae 7 Sa Fe * Ce Se i ee ee Ce a) a b epere 080 @ & Oo Ld ta SO Cd Sd Se 
eae rd se SY Cr ee ee Pe ee ree he Oe et S Pala hat Soa en ee td ae . * 
- COUR ‘° ie IS a te Ce ere ee tio? a AUR e, ae. 8 fe r Ar te id ! E x 
7 ST 2 Ce 
<5 AF e =e Pe) Sd 2 ars a & at ty ms AC tanec e i OS gh Re Os rhs Sd Pe ee a ee Ce oe ee a) Pd Cd e oe ee ee 
Cres Pe be oe phe eo be Ce 36 See O o e** e208 ° Te See ee ° rs a 
A oe Ce ee ee ee Lo i ea DB ee erate re dh he nL ae Se esmece 52s 72 co ee = . 
Pe A es ares per ed BE acre 1 bf ot SO SA Be ¢ 28 
ee We Se ee Pe OO ree Oe) 4 ae el aan pa ae Pet ig SG ame YT ° hee ry oe eobes er ee ee | Ps oe 
Patt ire te Sr ee te ee ee eo ‘eed oe ee ee oe " | t re Ce a oe) ° 
e¢ oe * t » Mt 2 oe ee ee Soe Oe t eo @ aed bd ° Ce ee a ed ee eee ee eo en PS rn ® 
ry . eG ee ee be - Py A 5 Pee er Se i ee ee ee eG Dh . a i ees Cee i a ee) a CF Sd Co O 
PS et g SI bs ° ae) A Pa ed a MO TY ALI A I a he OO 
RS ae ed Ae 2) AR wad 9" Sarre, Rar - ee a Ce ee ee rae) td e °° an a ry aee ® 
tits rad ba STC Te Ce te Te en dae Pe ae dogoseecoswmecoane Pa ee a a) er Se e i if 
a J A he ee ) .e¢e o re ee be re ee ee a On Pe et Cd a CO ° 
ides Cm ® ve ° ee oo ony * *.4.% te ALJ ase rag y Comte I et Sm Ce aL ME Nuk RT AA al le RR TI eg Ce ed to Ce Ce) a 
e é + . r 4 ee ed 3 wr ee ee es he J r 4 ty Cy Oy ° Pe ee ee ee ee ee | ee er a oe * bd 
ee ee ee ee re) eh lee e af rn a) Ps ee i ee eee « «tf ° rs 
(i °, bs ed 6 Y 2 ee ed es a * Ag 3 Pr =. Sees a thas ae . be od Cm or 7 ees r oe r} . a °¢ aoe Cm Cy Of OY ry 
Pare Tl ee Ce Se ee ee ry Ae Wee oat et he Pe ee FPP ad tar Sar he se the 5 o e ° 
ow 2 4.8 ee Oe ee . 7.0 @e 2 > 0 ®@ r ra ¢ r * > rs e ¢ ° 
ee ie ee bd Far Pa al ar oe be te Ye eo ee oe er ee) Ce ee an) 
re re | ° * ae. Cd e e ® P yee t e er ee ee e a é - ¢ 
oe Lee De ee ed ° ° A a 2° ey ee o a ee ee ° rf Cf Ld A 
PR We toe On EN et i Se > e998 ae bead bie ee ee rs Pr) 
Sd a Ci Pe ee Se ee ee ee PO Oe Oe Detaled «@ &6e oe 8 CM) ) r PY a a ee 
ied Ce ee oe 2 ° vie &€ oe 6 ee be t ot @ e eee eee ° ° e 
a ee 6 ° et @ »@ 0 @ § le ee ee @eeees ry 2% 6 eo @ ° CO gob oo Co ° 
oe ee > @ = 6 © ome ©& ee Ce ee ee te GY a Oe Se Se Oe oe eee eS ee 2 ° 
ae ie we) 2 o8 % o 8 Ce an 40° OF he iota a tad ia cd Se cas at al dar ee Se a Pe ay e e* Oe ) Cn) e ® 
ae Ca eS e7o4 0 y eee Se ee ee ee Ca Le oe me a Se ee geree ry eo e ese a? ry e e ary 
“i eR mes yA be js hee w oe Ore CS Se ee Oe A ror e A A 
° eo r s ry 
o pe me ers . a = Riot nd CS Nie 6. a mid) Karl . RIP ie Pat} te ed’ Ca a ee A Ce rg PUP Raa odes en ee ee Peer ag res C me Ce ie) A be ° 
eaeer of 7" Pde | ee a8 ® a e Ie oe 4 and r Nd od eee iy > r ne Py e - Ce oe 2) * +4 
EARL m ATR ce a OR F a RS Ad 5 e.° oY r S L st > aA o,* ee ee ee a ane ® e ad om) a ] PY * Ce 
oe Ww See Meta crane be bce CHES 0.0 6b 06. Ore 0+ © b9 0 6 66 0 tow 88 OF Oe ee oe te. mee # gpdieuneor+.ete 46 pees ah 
C et i or e eos Tis the ° eT .” CP de a ded ul ted rs iba ag ag & “es ds ° Oe Paulie aii et sine : a. 7 ee 
ee} cd Te ee Cat al ts TaN aad acl tate a bls Ge AO ° 48, Mts 2 ** ie ee oo ar erete o. soya 6 oma a) =@ee oy ® : 
ee ° ry ° oo peee Fe Hee ee a e- A Bs a ih a S 
@ *e td L o.8 Cd 
) a A er 4 ae Ce oe A Oe Sa rtd ee he Pe ee ; ary 
ree oe Oe Se ee a) ee nee > ° > ry ec oe oe ee ee rs Pie Le eke ° 
* ne A A t) 
Poe ae ee ed rey. a PRY ERR BIO Oe A ty a) ae eee Se ee ee Ce Ree P ay ° °° oY 
ed aN Tee o ee» Oe Os Oe Ce eo rr oo 8 Cy r) eo omy e 6 C + 
ty we) a ¢e 4 @ 7 e o ° a ¢ a ° ® 
Ba “e td ye TP AAAS Pir he) PY ee A t poh erg : ae Ps: Chat oa at Pate Palo Cn an it ae Sey oo ° Yo ° 
ovele 0° Gn dat 5 ae ain DGS 90 SOD he OG eae a ek eS De COL PT Se ee Pia eng ies ms 
are eR oe ro.0 0.9.0.0 Se a te 2? ‘3 ® S ea et ee - i ry A a) a) 
A eee 0 @ Pie ae eS a ° eeree oo 2.0 6 Aa bead ot Owen e S 
er ae * @ b ® ° Pa Me OC OL Pat eae ee on ie ee ee ee ° Ld ° A : ee a 
“ 0-0 + 0 @ + 6,626 @ om O0,0,9,9 Re PP Ped OS Fae be et et ee Oe ee ee eC eR 2 SL ee <, bee cet eae O * ¢ D 
Ri ae Sera ais fas bd bind Sar he) ay ee OR A ee ¥ ip os ery hed . re ed 
r e “Ee A Aah ys A her A eS FO Re in a r) Ca et 2 ot al aN as oo C : " ° : ° ae r 
pease e ome p Foy 2d e e “et 8 @ ® JeOR AS ee 2 a ae) td . a eee oe ee) Ce Ce e =) 
ee te ° a ee, A aa A 2 p Fp ee hte Ce Des a 7 ee ae ee oe ee er er ed a) ® 
he oe ere ai r 8 - rer ar ie oe oe Se Oe re roe ° eer 
ad aoe 4 oo & ty e.¢ 9... .2@ eeo@etsese Paar oa tl Pe IO RO eo d ee a ee ee ee ee) a } eee 
5 Cy Ue te Le LA oi @eee Ce BOER A ie ee ee ee ee ee ee AR SL eR ge Cr Rm 
Se Cee ar my ® ° ry S Ce ee ee Pe ee eee bd . S F 
hs * Y) a “ae rcbeospe 4) pe 2 ° Ae Ly ad a 2 Cd tf Sr a) nd ° a 4 ny 
ht @ a%s ototons in ae re YY OR Ale NO 8 . Ae bd +6 a Ped ih Ngee a Ur an pane See 0 rks fe 
t d i ooh . ae ee) Cy ¢,! + @ | Le Ca a ee ee (ee ee ee ee ee ee a) ee ee ee) ree ee ee D ord eo e/ 
Ce i ee ey r ¢° ese © & 6 0 age i Ca) ty n Ce o r ® a ee ee PY * a) ® ty ry 
tf e ® o ee a e 7 cool C a ee r a oe ee ee e200 ry r 
Ns 7 SY Of ° Of ee ) + oe) Ce a ed ¢ 
: Ll A a4 rs ro A Pi Pe Ee tie J OS SD Re A A + a eh dd Dr iL ih Land eon ee ee a aE PO oe Cf e ta 
! o-e + ry ree) rene PC ee YO ] i Pan a er Tt bt he ee Par 2) ° iS 
Fi Furey > coe a eee) — eae ee ee ye a Ce ed i e °° a re i ee ee to . rire ener’ ¢¢ te Lg 
ir 7 A LL Oe i Te ek Me eS weet et ht atte te voters oore as eet bh Petar td : NE aa 
* oe 
RSS aN A r) a aa er ri OS PS he a A Ae tk ° en e se Dt LF DR Le ad od 
ated bi ry SO Pare to or i ee ee art? 5 a ee “ bb eee a) 
¢ a Cy im) ‘.< me wa ee . we ) Cn 4 ee @ a | . ie J a! a 2 ae ee eee8 Ca e ° > ry 
PY oa ; a) gtd Ses : Oy Mi a Re OBOE FP Aarne’ RR days AP dle Bee ipa wali og Sided are as ES ae 
: Ld ob * Ld “i el, Deh Pe F oe “se 
NT pa aes ! bd t Ce Oe eee a * Ah ee OO o a °° a) ey Pod my Paro a Cr ee i ed A Cf 
] bh da ihadlled en ee ee oneepeese te td OY SY ? rf Le ed Ce ae oe a | CY Of ee 0 @ ° Ce t) Ca) Cf Of 
e r . A ° eh ee Po a me = od ty Ce ee ee e te ° Cg Cf le a rs 
a ee ee eC ek Pe 2d ee ee er ed C7 Sl Oy Cr es ee ee ee ee ee ® © 
6 ° r r ® J 7 
A ake iolliiadand rarer se eo ee ; ET eee aa eer Ms 5 Ye edd i ood» ee ° 
e db. ik M4 PP a tare ie See ke S Pane o 08 er ee to fe eee rs .=7e * @ * @ ° A 
o.oo be i * L) ee ° eet Ld 2 ¢ + ® Cf ese ¢ ° ° bi ° ) ty . 
ee De Ae sun Me Oe A badd ooops ¢ of %, ° id Pe Oe ee Y * CY) o Ci) ) b Ct ee 
he =? Ag gh TE pd oe * ty e SY »0'6 e ss ae. bs Ear dda hs gett tf: Bre aod od i be a CY eet ° 
Py Mg oe ee ee ee a ee ee ee Ca) ry ry ee @ ee we) ® 7 *be® @ee e 
he Se ee ee ee a ® LI e ete 474% 9%? D Ot Pn ee ee OG A a a ee r 
o e O ad ty Oo e. an , a Pe , a oe a 2 oe ee eee ecto o'ov ry a ee ee . > C Cd os 
Cy Ce) | a ee | * 6 r * e a ca *°@ L r P Cf rd e [a CY ¢ a a) o a 
7) Cy = | hn Ae | ® = a Ch. a oe oe 2 ee eee a oO ' eve ee Ca @ e e ° Sy 
+ oo qe co oe ee e f o 6 ee C Cz A r) ty ‘a cr ry td ee + 
° ° Oe) a e O eo 2° 6.¢ ¢ aeny e208 oe .@me % C e rs r -) 4 
e dee Py 2 Pt ie a t ee ? 7 @ te at ee) . @ 9 $ ©3200 & 6 O00 & Ce ee a) rs ry ry . 
. B “ a 4% | Ae Pe ee ee Se ee » oe? ee ee es e8 7 i = 
+ ° 8 A . a oy . 
‘ hi es Mince SoS st wid 5 Ws ol! PR Se ee PE ke ht oa Bs ee etd Sh oe en hers oS ora a si 5 
bl e oo . baberoe het! + fi St Fn PP eine te ee OAD A A oF 8 8, “ et 
ee as "s a ‘— Me oon Ane ba ad © cep ees Cd pine a eS me we ecerreoreeeeescrem A ” io ~ 
z : . ! art re eo Te Oe I MO ee ere ar eC Oe ae <<) a ereies (4:8 a Podee P 
Pe eee ee ee ee | ro ye ° er) 2 ! Pd Maes e° ee ee i 2 | ee ° ra a 
to i) oe ¢ 6 6 [i . ee a $e eo ese es 04% F828 © 6.6 Fer et eo, ° ot a ee) ) rs 
* ° re) ee ‘# 6 ees ¢ Ca a i N a e +,¢ ore 97 @ re ee * ee ee rd Ld oe ee ad 
fs Le "> 5 C 6 nS Cr ef B ae bs ar A s rs A od e#ee' @ : ee i ; sy 
Fe ae Toe ce Be Xo a ee e D eofee 24 es O ° BY * ¢ r Pa 
*.96* 6 ab aPared) Re ON Se OR a Pe ein tea! gt Tae F oe oe “ae fe Dt ail ihe ba 
| May A ere ee age <8 IR Td dl dd a Mid lo A 4 sae 7 rape ees ; 
e C) r ¢ i e * eve ee ° ees a rs ry : o = 
Toe ee ae, ORR Fn Dal Ad ad S Ae RAR i °° eae) ee “ 
Cm se * A A 
i ° eo a 4% Sia hier ie RO or rY AS Pirie Lenn ee eee oe oS 6s e he io ae Rn enone 81029 ELAN 4 OO i id PS 
Cm e,/ a a ed y ORR ae ae ori niet 44 no ad ey ry Ota ? ere rie i ee Oe oh AES Wn bid tf) a ei d e * ti 
Es ny Sale Waa aoa cote ete ‘ ua 8. Rr te CE ARIE Td eg oe Bee oe a eee Or iy .° S ‘ 
ro | a J ae oe A an) Peer ee Se ee Oe ee ee OE | * a Pan rer at ie Ato) C ; = eevee eoirene@ t A 
CJ Par) Les Ly F ra Rar * mar Pe " ie - Ped CT FAs badd ac o,0 Le Pd *¢ , ae) Ce er ee eo @ te é Mr ry Ae a AL oe roe A ta aay re’ * a aed ei i 
prererte se eevee reas vot Saale’ Peer 4 OG. Wen a laid dl Tin el iat OO ‘ * 6 
ry ss A ty a Saw ee er me RS ts O (eo o) 7. ¢°¢ ° = F 
Py Re C I OS ef ry es +o * 6 ae OLE by A . Fete Py Nee * oe ob = i eae ee oe ATT Pies Ls PP ds" ia ad (adie dl Fe 
me oS rm) cy ° r CO Of 
J aM 6 | oe aa RS Mi Be ot OR) thal bo ed A AAR ere o. yy Py PD ae apr AES tore . Aes he eee Ct ar ne Pod aaa ee ee ¢¢ é 
ree en Aer ees . a) rh ree °° taf ore rt oa! A rare ye Pe Pe Rs Pk, arog oe se eee rs a ‘ 
AP Se ae op yt tere ne ee ad . ot oe Oo Oy tee OS CLE Te di ee, i se 2 : O re) 
A Ce ee hi p el Ke - Pe ee oe ee oe ee . A Ca a ee ee tos ry Fy Car ay e 
oa ps ay teeeo™ oF “ee Le eed Ls as A ‘ * Ks A Pree e Ps , = 
Ad + ' Ch ee e D o* i) eore te oe Co ee to 
" ry a m e rs A ry ry e ry e oe ee ee ee) ates as 5 . ° a, LF n rf ° ty e 
Se ok ee ee! vaio shale 0.9.0.0 ADS Velie ee o=eee , *2 Le ane Pe eT eae aOR a ee : ‘. bd be ed P = ee ae 
od ° e . 
eee ¢ Cy CL Cy r = bd ald eee S a BO e* ee ee ee - ae a) e280 eee rae i a es Ce 
“e's . oT oy eg rie. * ot se of t 6h es a. oe LP 7 oad a he fall ENN lia 3 ee neg me) ~ 
RP A aye ee i ee, Se ye ee o% « = e Coe ee ee cae PS re rs ena ° * e Oe +o? r r) PY C7 b 
= i. ry e 
oe ee x ee eoee rs ? “J «Cee en 5 , r ra) 
Ca Pod aa Le ee wt. ” ane ot Cy iy ae ry oe ge ar e ame r i *. a *,*'= ee ee ee e¢ e oaee a e ee 
ee) ro ee ee ee CS _* a. oe e ae wore tersonces Pt aan f - “ 5 = a 
Pw) ry ra e a ee ® ° 8 e Coe e bd ae 
4 by at oe a eoge,) 4 rr giro ecaceecs z "a ed en Ph ee ee dle CER SC aa a ie ar) ee a BPs a C 
K Le en ry i ae t Co ae J [er a) ee a : 
. 7 Lm e Sd ee Ce ed a C . . A 
eee ete dys ty el dela * ¢ i ah nt arte a Cn A, ara er eh ee, ih e 7 
+ rs 5 r 
' t) e + ° 
ooF _@ @ ° om lerre! mL rr) re ee o ‘ rae oe oe ee ee ee ee r a r * @ 5 
Nr oor vr er ee e) ew $3. aed ee ee es ee Me it Me ey er ar ee es Y , 
o° r a Ws MM | a a ee ls rar rs 5 ar) ee) a ov #0 ° L 
i te o = 2 @ 94% an | e Cas 5 ° oe = 
x) i ee > 7 e oe ¢ a a" , ers r} eg? r 2 = ar . ~ Oe a" k x : - ida bs rm) e > ow 
" aa ~ on at 2 ry e r ry e Cf . me 





