= %, 
i } £ 
; . a4 
Wie. 
r . " 
L : 
a - io 


rs 


“Pre . 
5 he UN 
‘ <4 - * a , e 
Va 
a" re 








Presented to 
Che Hibrary 
of the 
University of Coronta 





by | 
Bertram A. Davis i} 
: 


from the books of the late 
Lionel Davis K. C. 








THE DOCTOR’S DILEMMA 





The Doctor’s Dilemma: 
a Tragedy. By Bernard 
- Shaw. 


Constable and Company 
Ltd. London: 1922. 


(This play has been publicly performed within the United Kingdom. It is 
entered at Stationers’ Hall and the Library of Congress, U.S... <All rights 
reserved} 


Printed in Great Britain by R. & R. Crark, Limitep, Edinburgh, 





CONTENTS 


The Doctor’s Dilemma: a Tragedy 


Preface on Doctors . : oH 
Doubtful Character borne by the 
Medical Profession . : XIV 
Doctors’ Consciences . J . Xvi 
The Peculiar People. xvii 
Recoil of the Dogma otf Medical 
Infallibility on the Doctor. . . xix 
Why Doctors do not Differ . eel 
The Craze for Operations. - Xx 
Credulity and Chloroform. . XXIV 
Medical Poverty . : . XXxV 
The Successful Dacron, : . XXVIi 
The Psychology of Self-Respect in 
Surgeons . : ovRIX 
Are Doctors Men of Beene > . XXXI 
Bacteriology as a Superstition TVX 
Economic Difficulties of Immuniza- 
tion : .X¥x3V 
The Perils ar Tnceuition : XXXVil 
Trade Unionism and Science open! 
.-Doctors and Vivisection : . xiii 
The Primitive Savage Motive . xlili 
The Higher Motive. ‘The Tree of 
Knowledge : ‘ « aliv 


The Flaw in the Argument ‘ . xiv 
Limitations of the Right to Know- 
ledge ; : : ‘ . xivi 
v 


vi 


Contents 

A False Alternative . : . xivii 
Cruelty for its own Sake : Me tbe 
Our own Cruelties 2 1 
The Scientific Investigation of 

Crmelty 9. lii 
Suggested Laboratory Tests of the 

Vivisector’s Emotions : . ohn 
Routine : co Slay 


_ The Old Line between Man and 


Beast . viii 
Vivisecting the Human ‘Subject « ix 
““The Lie is a European Power” . Ix 
An Argument which would Defend 


any Crime : ; Ixi 
Thou Art The Man . . lxiv 
What the Public Wants aya Will 

Not Get .. : 3 : . lxv 
The Vaccination Craze . « sev 
Statistical Illusions : . xvi 
The Surprises of Attention and 

Weglect . ‘ . xix 
Stealing Credit from Civilization « dxxi 
Biometrika . ; . Ixxii 
Patient-made Therapeutics ‘ . xxiii 
The Reforms also come from the 

Laity : : . lxxiv 
Fashions and Epidemics : £ 1exu 
The Doctor’s Virtues . : . Ixxvi 
The Doctor’s Hardships : Ixxvil 
The Public Doctor : : lyxix 
Medical Organization . :1XXX 
The Social Solution of the Medical 

Problem . 4 Ixxxil 


The Future of Private Bectice Ixxxili 
The Technical Problem i Ixxxv 
The Latest Theories . . lxxxvill 


a 


THE DOCTOR’S DILEMMA 
XVI . 


1906 


I am grateful to Hesba Stretton, the Authoress of Jessica’s 
First Prayer, for permission to call my play by the title 
of one of her own stories, 


PREFACE ON DOCTORS 


Ir is not the fault of our doctors that the medical service 
of the community, as at present provided for, is a murderous 
absurdity. That any sane nation, having observed that you 
could provide for the supply of bread by giving bakers a 
pecuniary interest in baking for you, should go on to give 
a surgeon a pecuniary interest in cutting off your leg, is 
enough to make one despair of political humanity. But 
that is precisely what we have done. And the more appal- 
ling the mutilation, the more the mutilator is paid. He who 
corrects the ingrowing toe-nail receives a few shillings: 
he who cuts your inside out receives hundreds of guineas, 
except when he does :t to a poor person for practice. 
Scandalized voices murmur that these operations are 
necessary. They may be. It may also be necessary to 
hang a man or pull down a house. But we take good care 
not to make the hangman and the houseoreaker the judges 
of that. If we did, no man’s neck would be safe and no 
man’s house stable. But we do make the doctor the judge, 
and fine him anything from sixpence to several hundred 
guineas if he decides in our favor. I cannot knock my 
shins severely without forcing on some surgeon the diffi- 
cult question, “ Could I not make a better use of a pocket- 
ful of guineas than this man is making of his leg? Could 
he not write as well—or even better—on one leg than on 
two? And the guineas would make all the difference in 
the world to me just now. My wife—my pretty ones— 
xiii 


Xiv The Doctor’s Dilemma 


the leg may mortify—it is always safer to operate —he 
will be well in a fortnight—artificial legs are now so well 
made that they are really better than natural ones—evo- 
lution is towards motors and leglessness, &c., &c., &c.” 

Now.there is no calculation that an engineer can make 
as to the behavior of a girder under a strain, or an astron- 
omer as to the recurrence of a comet, more certain than 
the calculation that under such circumstances we shall be 
dismembered unnecessarily in all directions by surgeons 
who believe the operations to be necessary solely because 
they want to perform them. The process metaphorically 
called bleeding the rich man is performed not only 
metaphorically but literally every day by surgeons who are 
quite as honest as most of us. After all, what harm is 
there in it? The surgeon need not take off the rich man’s 
(or woman’s) leg or arm: he can remove the appendix 
or the uvula, and leave the patient none the worse after 
a fortnight or so in bed, whilst the nurse, the general 
ieee the apothecary, and the surgeon will be the 
etter, 


Doubtful Character borne by the 
Medical Profession. 


Again I hear the voices indignantly muttering old 
phrases about the high character of a noble profession 
and the honor and conscience of its members. I must 
reply that the medical profession has not a high character: 
it has an infamous character. I do not know a single 
thoughtful and well-informed person who does not feel 
that the tragedy of illness at present is that it delivers you 
helplessly into the hands of a profession which you deeply 
mistrust, because it not only advocates and practises the 
most revolting cruelties in the pursuit of knowledge, and 
justifies them on grounds which would equally justify 
practising the same cruelties on yourself or your children, 
or burning down London to test a patent fire extinguisher, 


Preface on Doctors XV 


but, when it has shocked the public, tries to reassure it 
with lies of breath-bereaving brazenness. That is the char- 
acter the medical profession has got just now. It may be 
deserved or it may not: there it is at all events; and the 
doctors who have not realized this are living in a fool’s 


paradise. As to the honor and conscience of doctors, they ~.. 


have as much as any other class of men, no more and no 
less. And what other men dare pretend to be impartial 
where they have a strong pecuniary interest on one side? 
Nobody supposes that doctors are less virtuous than judges ; 
but a judge whose salary and reputation depended on 
whether the verdict was for plaintiff or defendant, pro- 
secutor or prisoner, would be as little trusted as a general 
in the pay of the enemy. ‘To offer me a doctor as my 
judge, and then weight his decision with a bribe of a 
large sum of money and a virtual guarantee that if he 
makes a mistake it can never be proved against him, is 
to go wildly beyond the ascertained strain which human 
nature will bear. It is simply unscientific to allege or 
believe that doctors do not under existing circumstances 
perform unnecessary operations and manufacture and pro- 
long lucrative illnesses. The only ones who can claim to 
be above suspicion are those who are so much sought after 
that their cured patients are immediately replaced by fresh 
ones. And there is this curious psychological fact to be 
remembered: a serious illness or a death advertizes the 
doctor exactly as a hanging advertizes the barrister who 
defended the person hanged. Suppose, for example, a 
royal personage gets something wrong with his throat, or 
has a pain in his inside. If a doctor effects some trumpery 
cure with a wet compress or a peppermint lozenge nobody 
takes the least notice of him. But if he operates on the 
throat and kills the patient, or extirpates an internal organ 
and keeps the whole nation palpitating for days whilst 
the patient hovers in pain and fever between life and 
death, his fortune is made: every rich man who omits to 


call him in when the same symptoms appear in his household 
b 


Xvi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


is held not to have done his utmost duty to the patient, 
The wonder is that there is a king or queen left alive in 
Europe. 


Doctors’ Consciences. 


There is another difficulty in trusting to the honor 
and conscience of a doctor. Doctors are just like other 
Englishmen: most of them have no honor and no 
conscience: what they commonly mistake for these is 
sentimentality and an intense dread of doing anything 
that everybody else does not do, or omitting to do any- 
thing that everybody else does. This of course does 
amount to a sort of working or rule-of-thumb conscience; 
but it means that you will do anything, good or bad, pro- 
vided you get enough pecple to keep you in countenance 
by doing it also. It is the sort of conscience that makes it 
possible to keep order on a pirate ship, or in a troop of 
brigands. It may be said that in the last analysis there is 
no other sort of honor or conscience in existence—that 
the assent of the majority is the only sanction known to 
ethics. No doubt this holds good in political practice. If 
mankind knew the facts, and agreed with the doctors, then 
the doctors would be in the right; and any person who 
thought otherwise would be a lunatic. But mankind does 
not agree, and does not know the facts. All that can 
be said for medical popularity is that until there is a 
practicable alternative to blind trust in the doctor, the 
truth about the doctor is so terrible that we dare not face 
it. Moliére saw through the doctors; but he had to call 
them in just the same. Napoleon had no illusions about 
them; but he had to die under their treatment just as 
much as the most credulous ignoramus that ever paid 
sixpence for a bottle of strong medicine. In this predica- 
ment most people, to save themselves from unbearable 
mistrust and misery, or from being driven by their con- 
science into actual conflict with the law, fall back on the 
old rule that if you cannot have what you believe in you 





Preface on Doctors XVli 


must believe in what you have. When your child is ill or 
your wife dying, and you happen to be very fond of them, 
or even when, if you are not fond of them, you are human 
enough to forget every personal grudge before the spectacle 
of a fellow creature in pain or peril, what you want is 
comfort, reassurance, something to clutch at, were it but 
astraw. This the doctor brings you. You have a wildly 
urgent feeling that something must be done; and the 
doctor does something. Sometimes what he does kills 
the patient; but you do not know that; and the doctor 
assures you that all that human skill could do has been 
done. And nobody has the brutality to say to the newly 
bereft father, mother, husband, wife, brother, or sister, 
“© You have killed your Jost darling by your credulity.’ 


The Peculiar People. 


Besides, the calling in of the doctor is now compulsory 
except in cases where the patient is an adult and not too 
ill to decide the steps to be taken. We are subject to 
prosecution for manslaughter or for criminal] neglect if 
the patient dies without the consolations of the medical 
profession. This menace is kept before the public by the 
Peculiar People. The Peculiars, as they are called, have 
gained their name by believing that the Bible is infallible, 
and taking their belief quite seriously. The Bible is very 
clear as to the treatment of illness. The Epistle of James, 
chapter v., contains the following explicit directions :— 

14. Is any sick among you? let him call for the 
elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, 
anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord: 

15. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and 
the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed ~ 
sins, they shall be forgiven him. 


The Peculiars obey these instructions and dispense with 
doctors. They are therefore prosecuted for manslaughter 
when their children die. 


XVI The Doctor’s Dilemma 


When I was a young man, the Peculiars were usually 
acquitted. The prosecution broke down when the doctor 
in the witness box was asked whether, if the child had had 
medical attendance, it would have lived. It was, of course, 
impossible for any man of sense and honor to assume divine 
omniscience by answering this in the affirmative, or indeed 
pretending to be able to answer it at all, And on this the 
judge had to instruct the jury that they must acquit the 
prisoner. Thus a judge with a keen sense of law (a very 
rare phenomenon on the Bench, by the way) was spared 
the possibility of having to sentence one prisoner (under 
the Blasphemy Laws) for questioning the authority of 
Scripture, and another for ignorantly and superstitiously 
accepting it as a guide to conduct. ‘To-day all this is 
changed. The doctor never hesitates to claim divine omni- 
science, nor to clamor for laws to punish any scepticism 
on the part of laymen. A modern doctor thinks nothing 
of signing the death certificate of one of his own diphtheria 
patients, and then going into the witness box and swearing 
a Peculiar into prison for six months by assuring the jury, 
on oath, that if the prisoner’s child, dead of diphtheria, 
had been placed under his treatment instead of that of St. 
James, it would not have died. And he does so not only 
with impunity, but with public applause, though the logical 
course would be to prosecute him either for the murder of 
his own patient or for perjury in the case of St. James. 
Yet no barrister, apparently, dreams of asking for the statis- 
tics of the relative case-mortality in diphtheria among the 
Peculiars and among the believers in doctors, on which alone 
any valid opinion could be founded. The barrister is as 
superstitious as the doctor is infatuated; and the Peculiar 
goes unpitied to his cell, though nothing whatever has been 
proved except that his child died without the interference 
of a doctor as effectually as any of the hundreds of children 
who die every day of the same diseases in the doctor’s care. 


Preface on Doctors X1X 


Recoil of the Dogma of Medical 
Infallibility on the Doctor. 


On the other hand, when the doctor is in the dock, or 
is the defendant in an action for malpractice, he has to 
struggle against the inevitable result of his former pretences 
to infinite knowledge and unerring skill. He has taught 
the jury and the judge, and even his own counsel, to believe 
that every doctor can, with a glance at the tongue, a touch 
on the pulse, and a reading of the clinical thermometer, 
diagnose with absolute certainty a patient’s complaint, also 
that on dissecting a dead body he can infallibly put his 
finger on the cause of death, and, in cases where poisoning 
is suspected, the nature of the poison used. Now all this 
supposed exactness and infallibility is imaginary; and to 
treat a doctor as if his mistakes were necessarily malicious 
or corrupt malpractices (an inevitable deduction from the 
postulate that the doctor, being omniscient, cannot make 
mistakes) is as unjust as to blame the nearest apothecary 
for not being prepared to supply you with sixpenny-worth of 
the elixir of life, or the nearest motor garage for not having 
perpetual motion on sale in gallon tins. But if apothecaries 
and motor car makers habitually advertized elixir of life and 
perpetual motion, and succeeded in creating a strong general 
belief that they could supply it, they would find themselves 
in an awkward position if they were indicted for allowing a 
customer to die, or for burning a chauffeur by putting petrol 
into his car. That is the predicament the doctor finds 
himself in when he has to defend himself against a charge 
of malpractice by a plea of ignorance and fallibility. His 
plea is received with flat incredulity; and he gets little 
sympathy, even from laymen who know, because he has 
brought the incredulity on himself. If he escapes, he can 
only do so by opening the eyes of the jury to the facts 
that medical science is as yet very imperfectly differentiated 
from common curemongering witchcraft; that diagnosis, 


XX The Doctor’s Dilemma 


though it mean$ in many instances (including even the 
identification of pathogenic bacilli under the microscope) 
only a choice among terms so loose that they would not be 
accepted as definitions in any really exact science, is, even 
at that, an uncertain and difficult matter on which doctors 
often differ; and that the very best medical opinion and 
treatment varies widely from doctor to doctor, one practi- 
tioner prescribing six or seven scheduled poisons for so 
familiar a disease as enteric fever where another will not 
tolerate drugs at all; one starving a patient whom another 
would stuff; one urging an operation which another would 
regard as unnecessary and dangerous; one giving alcohol 
and meat which another would sternly forbid, &c., &c., 
&c.: all these discrepancies arising not between the opinion 
of good doctors and bad ones (the medical contention is, of 
course, that a bad doctor is an impossibility), but between 
practitioners of equal eminence and authority. Usually it 
is impossible to persuade the jury that these facts are facts. 
Juries seldom notice facts; and they have been taught to 
regard any doubts of the omniscience and omnipotence of 
doctors as blasphemy. Even the fact that doctors them- 
selves die of the very diseases they profess to cure passes 
unnoticed. We do not shoot out our lips and shake our 
heads, saying, “‘ They save others: themselves they cannct 
save”: their reputation stands, like an African king’s 
palace, on a foundation of dead bodies; and the result is 
that the verdict goes against the defendant when the 
defendant is a doctor accused of malpractice. 

Fortunately for the doctors, they-very seldom find them- 
selves in this position, because it is so difficult to prove 
anything against them. The only evidence that'can decide 
a case of malpractice is expert evidence: that is, the 
evidence of other doctors; and every doctor will allow a 
colleague to decimate a whole countryside sooner than 
violate the bond of professional etiquet by giving him 
away. It is the nurse who gives the doctor away in:private, 
because every nurse has some particular doctor whom she 





Preface on Doctors XX1 


likes; and she usually assures her patients that all the 
others are disastrous noodles, and soothes the tedium of 
the sick-bed by gossip about their blunders. She will even 
give a doctor away for the sake of making the patient 
believe that she knows more than the doctor. But she 
dare not, for her livelihood, give the doctor away in public. 
And the doctors stand by one another at all costs. Now 
and then some doctor in an unassailable position, like the 
late Sir William Gull, will go into the witness box and 
say what he really thinks about the way a patient has been 
treated; but such behavior is considered little short of 
infamous by his colleagues. 


Why Doctors do not Differ. 


The truth is, there would never be any public agree- 
ment among doctors if they did not agree to agree on the 
main point of the doctor being always in the right. Yet 
the two guinea man never thinks that the five shilling man 
is right: if he did, he would be understood as confessing to 
an overcharge of £1:17s.; and on the same ground the 
five shilling man cannot encourage the notion that the 
owner of the sixpenny surgery round the corner is quite up 
to his mark. Thus even the layman has to be taught that 
infallibility is not quite infallible, because there are two 
qualities of it to be had at two prices. 

But there is no agreement even in the same rank at the 
same price. During the first great epidemic of influenza 
towards the end of the nineteenth century a London evening 
paper sent round a journalist-patient to all the great con- 
sultants of that day, and published their advice and pre- 
scriptions : a proceeding passionately denounced by the 
medical papers as a breach of confidence of these eminent 
_ physicians. The case was the same; but the prescriptions 
were different, and so was the advice. Now a doctor 
cannot think his own treatment right and at the same time 
think his colleague right in prescribing a different treat- 


XXI The Doctor’s Dilemma. 


ment when the patient is the same. Anyone who has 
ever known doctors well enough to hear medical shop 
talked without reserve knows that they are full of stories 
about each other’s blunders and errors, and that the theory 
of their omniscience and omnipotence no more holds good 
among themselves than it did with Moliére and Napoleon. 
But for this very reason no doctor dare accuse another or 
malpractice. He is not sure enough of his own opinion 
to ruin another man by it. He knows that if such conduct 
were tolerated in his profession no doctor’s livelihood or 
reputation would be worth a year’s purchase. I] do not 
blame him: I should do the same myself. But the effect 
of this state of things is to make the medical profession a 
conspiracy to hide its own shortcomings. No doubt the 
same may be said of all professions. They are all con- 
spiracies against the laity; and I do not suggest that the 
medical conspiracy is either better or worse than the 
military conspiracy, the legal conspiracy, the sacerdotal 
conspiracy, the pedagogic conspiracy, the royal and aristo- 
cratic conspiracy, the literary and artistic conspiracy, and 
the innumerable industrial, commercial, and financial con- 
spiracies, from the trade unions to the great exchanges, 
which make up the huge conflict which we call society. 
But it is less suspected. The Radicals who used to advo- 
cate, as an indispensable preliminary to social reform, the 
strangling of the last king with the entrails of the last 
priest, substituted compulsory vaccination for compulsory 
baptism without a murmur. 


The Craze for Operations. 


Thus everything is on the side of the doctor. When men 
die of disease they are said to die from natural causes. When 
they recover (and they mostly do) the doctor gets the 
credit of curingthem. In surgery all operations are recorded 
as successful if the patient can be got out of the hospital 
or nursing home alive, though the subsequent history of 


Preface on Doctors XXIll 


the case may be such as would make an honest surgeon vow 
never to recommend or perform the operation again. The 
large range of operations which consist of amputating limbs 
and extirpating organs admits of no direct verification of 
their necessity. There is a fashion in operations as there is 
in sleeves and skirts: the triumph of some surgeon who has 
at last found out how to make a once desperate operation 
fairly safe is usually followed by a rage for that operation not 
only among the doctors, but actually among their patients. 
There are men and women whom the operating table seems 
to fascinate: half-alive people who through vanity, or hypo- 
chondria, or a craving to be the constant objects of anxious 
attention or what not, lose such feeble sense as they ever 
had of the value of their own organs and limbs. They seem 
to care as little for mutilation as lobsters or lizards, which 
at least have the excuse that they grow new claws and new 
tails if they lose the old ones. Whilst this book was being 
prepared for the press a case was tried in the Courts, of a 
man who sued a railway company for damages because a 
train had run over him and amputated both his legs. He 
lost his case because it was proved that he had deliberately 
contrived the occurrence himself for the sake of getting an 
idler’s pension at the expense of the railway company, being 
too dull to realize how much more he had to lose than to 
gain by the bargain even if he had won his case and received 
damages above his utmost hopes. 

This amazing case makes it possible to say, with some 
prospect of being believed, that there is in the classes who 
can afford to pay for fashionable operations a sprinkling 
of persons so incapable of appreciating the relative im- 
portance of preserving their bodily integrity (including the 
capacity for parentage) and the pleasure of talking about 
themselves and hearing themselves talked about asthe heroes 
and heroines of sensational operations, that they tempt 
surgeons to operate on them not only with huge fees, but 
with personal solicitation. Now it cannot be too often re- 
peated that when an operation is once performed, nobody 


XXIV The Doctor’s Dilemma 


can ever prove that it was unnecessary. If I refuse to allow 
my leg to be amputated, its mortification and my death may 
prove that I was wrong; but if I let the leg go, nobody can 
ever prove that it would not have mortified had I been 
obstinate. Operationis therefore the safe side for the surgeon 
as well as the lucrative side. The result is that we hear of 
“‘conservative surgeons”? as a distinct class of practitioners 
who make it a rule not to operate if they can possibly help 
it, and who are songht after by the people who have vitality 
enough to regard an operation as a last resort. But no 
surgeon is bound to take the conservative view. If he be- 
lieves that an organ is at best a useless survival, and that if 
he extirpates it the patient will be well and none the worse 
in a fortnight, whereas to await the natural cure would mean 
a month’s illness, then he is clearly justified in recommend- 
ing the operation even if the cure without operation is as 
certain as anything of the kind ever can be. Thus the con 
servative surgeon and the radical or extirpatory surgeon may 
both be right as far as the ultimate cure is concerned; so 
that their consciences do not help them out of their differ- 
ences. 


Credulity and Chloroform. 


There is no harder scientific fact in the world than the 
fact that belief can be produced in practically unlimited 
quantity and intensity, without observation or reasoning, 
and even in defiance of both, by the simple desire to be- 
lieve founded on a strong interest in believing. Everybody 
recognizes this in the case of the amatory infatuations of 
the adolescents who see angels and heroes in obviously (to 
others) commonplace and even objectionable maidens and 
youths. But it holds good over the entire field of human 
activity. The hardest-headed materialist will become a con- 
sulter of table-rappers and slate-writers if he loses a child 
or a wife so beloved that the desire to revive and communi- 
cate with them becomes irresistible. The cobbler believes 
that there is nothing like leather. The Imperialist who 


Preface on Doctors XXV 


regards the conquest of England by a foreign power as the 
worst of political misfortunes believes that the conquest of 
a foreign power by England would be a boon to the con- 
quered. Doctors are no more proof against such illusions 
than other men. Can anyone then doubt that under existing 
conditions a great deal of unnecessary and mischievous 
operating is bound to go on, and that patients are encouraged 
to imagine that modern surgery and anesthesia have made 
operations much less serious matters than they really are? 
When doctors write or speak to the public about operations, 
they imply, and often say in so many words, that chloroform 
has made surgery painless. People who have been operated 
on know better. The patient does not fecl the knife, and 
the operation is therefore enormously facilitated for the 
surgeon; but the patient pays for the anesthesia with hours 
of wretched sickness; and when that is over there is the 
pain of the wound made by the surgeon, which has to heal 
like any other wound. This is why operating surgeons, who 
are usually out of the house with their fee in their pockets 
before the patient has recovered consciousness, and who 
therefore see nothing of the suffering witnessed by the 
general practitioner and the nurse, occasionally talk of 
operations very much as the hangman in Barnaby Rudge 
talked of executions, as if being operated on were a luxury 
in sensation as well as in price. 


Medical Poverty. 


To make matters worse, doctors are hideously poor. The 
Irish gentleman doctor of my boyhood, who took nothing 
less than a guinea, though he might pay you four visits for 
it, seems to have no equivalent nowadays in English society. 
Better be a railway porter than an ordinary English general 
practitioner. A railway porter has from eighteen to twenty- 
three shillings 2 week from the Company merely as a re- 
tainer; and his additional fees from the public, if we leave 
the third-class twopenny tip out of account (and I am by 


XXVv1 The Doctor’s Dilemma 


no means sure that even this reservation need be made), 
are equivalent to doctor’s fees in the case of second-class 
passengers, and double doctor’s fees in the case of first. 
Any class of educated men thus treated tends to become a 
brigand class, and doctors are no exception to the rule. 
They are offered disgraceful prices for advice and medicine. 
Their patients are for the most part so poor and so ignorant 
that good advice would be resented as impracticable and 
wounding. When you are so poor that you cannot afford to 
refuse eighteenpence from a man who is too poor to pay 
you any more, it is useless to tell him that what he or his 
sick child needs is not medicine, but more leisure, better 
clothes, better food, and a better drained and ventilated 
house. It is kinder to give him a bottle of something almost 
as cheap as water, and tell him to come again with another 
eighteenpence if it does not cure him. When you have 
done that over and over again every day for a week, how 
much scientific conscience have you left? If you are weak- 
minded enough to cling desperately to your cighteenpence 
as denoting a Certain social superiority to the sixpenny 
doctor, you will be miserably poor all your life; whilst the 
sixpenny doctor, with his low prices and quick turnover 
of patients, visibly makes much more than you do and kills 
no more people. 

A doctor’s character can no more stand out against such 
conditions than the lungs of his patients can stand out 
against bad ventilation. The only way in which he can 
preserve his self-respect is by forgetting all he ever learnt 
of science, and clinging to such help as he can give without 
cost merely by being less ignorant and more accustomed to 
sick-beds than his patients. Finally, he acquires a certain 
skill at nursing cases under poverty-stricken domestic con- 
ditions, just as women who have been trained as domestic 
servants in some huge institution with lifts, vacuum cleaners, 
electric lighting, steam heating, and machinery that turns 
the kitchen into a laboratory and engine house combined, 
manage, when they are sent out into the world to drudge 





Preface on Doctors XXVil 


as general servants, to pick up their business in a new way, 
learning the slatternly habits and wretched makeshifts of 
homes where even bundles of kindling wood are luxuries 
to be anxiously economized. 


The Successful Doctor. 


The doctor whose success blinds public opinion to medical 
poverty is almost as completely demoralized. His promo- 
tion means that his practice becomes more and more con- 
fined to the idle rich. The proper advice for most of their 
ailments is typified in Abernethy’s “Live on sixpence a day 
and earn it.” But here, as at the other end of the scale, 
the right advice is neither agreeable nor practicable. And 
every hypochondriacal rich lady or gentleman who can be 
persuaded that he or she is a lifelong invalid means any- 
thing from fifty to five hundred pounds a year for the doctor. 
Operations enable a surgeon to earn similar sums in a couple 
of hours; and if the surgeon also keeps a nursing home, he 
may make considerable profits at the same time by running 
what is the most expensive kind of hotel. These gains are 
so great that they undo much of the moral advantage which 
the absence of grinding pecuniary anxiety gives the rich 
doctor over the poor one. It is true that the temptation to 
prescribe a sham treatment because the real treatment is too 
dear for either patient or doctor does not exist for the rich 
doctor. He always has plenty of genuine cases which can 
afford genuine treatment; and these provide him with 
enough sincere scientific professional work to save him from 
the ignorance, obsolescence, and atrophy of scientific con- 
science into which his poorer colleagues sink. But on the 
other hand his expenses are enormous. Even as a bachelor, 
he must, at London west end rates, make over a thousand 
a year before he can afford even to insure his life. His 
house, his servants, and his equipage (or autopage) must be 
on the scale to which his patients are accustomed, though 
a couple of rooms with a camp bed in one of them might 


xxvili The Doctor’s Dilemma 


satisfy his own requirements. Above all, the income which 
provides for these outgoings stops the moment he himself 
stops working. Unlike the man of business, whose managers, 
clerks, warehousemen and labozers keep his business going 
whilst he is in bed or in his club, the doctor cannot earn 
a farthing by deputy. Though he is exceptionally exposed 
to infection, and has to face all weathers at all hours of the 
night and day, often not enjoying a complete night’s rest 
for a week, the money stops coming in the moment he stops 
going out; and therefore illness has spec‘al terrors for him, 
and success no certain permanence. He da-e notstopmaking 
hay while the sun shines; for it may set at any time. Men 
do not resist pressure of this intensity. When they come 
under it as doctors they pay unnecessary visits; they write 
prescriptions that are as absurd as the rub of chalk with 
which an Irish tailor once charmed away a wart from my 
father’s finger; they conspire with surgeons to promote 
operations; they nurse the delusions of the malade imaginaire 
(who is always really ill because, as there is no such thing 
as perfect health, nobody is ever really well); they exploit 
human folly, vanity, and fear of death as ruthlessly as their 
own health, strength, and patience are exploited by selfish 
hypochondriacs. They must do all these things or else run 
pecuniary risks that no man can fairly be asked to run. And 
the healthier the world becomes, the more they are com- 
pelled to live by imposture and the less by that really helpful 
activity of which all doctors get enough to preserve them 
from utter corruption. For even the most hardened hum- 
bug who ever prescribed ether tonics to ladies whose need 
for tonics is of precisely the same character as the need of 
poorer women fora glass of gin, has to help a mother through 
child-bearing often enough to feel that he is not living 
wholly in vain. 





Preface on Doctors XxXiX | 


The Psychology of Self-Respect in 
Surgeons. 


The surgeon, though often more unscrupulous than the 
general practitioner, retains his self-respect more easily. 
‘The human conscience can subsist on very questionable food. 
No man who is occupied in doing a very difficult thing, 
and doing it very well, ever loses his self-respect. The 
shirk, the duffer, the malingerer, the coward, the weakling, 
may be put out of countenance by his own failures and 
frauds; but the man who does evil skilfully, energetically, 
masterfully, grows prouder and bolder at every crime. The 
common man may have to found his self-respect on sobriety, 
honesty and industry; but a Napoleon needs no such props 
for his sense of dignity. If Nelson’s conscience whicpered 
to him at all in the silent watches of the night, you may 
depend on it it whispered about the Baltic and the Nile 
and Cape St, Vincent, and not about his unfaithfulness to 
his wife. A man who robs little children when no one is 
looking can hardly have much self-respect or even self- 
esteem; but an accomplished burglar must be proud of 
himself. In the play to which I am at present preluding I 
have represented an artist who is so entirely satisfied with 
his artistic conscience, even to the point of dying like a 
saint with its support, that he is utterly selfish and un- 
scrupulous in every other relation without feeling at the 
smallest disadvantage. ‘The same thing may be observed in 
women who have a genius for personal attractiveness: they 
expend more thought, labor, skill, inventiveness, taste and 
endurance on making themselves lovely than would suffice 
to keep a dozen ugly women honest; and this enables 
them to maintain a high opinion of themselves, and an 
“angry contempt for unattractive and personally careless 
women, whilst they lie and cheat and slander and sell 
themselves without a blush. The truth is, hardly any of 
x8 have ethical energy enough for more than one really 


Xxx The Doctor’s Dilemma 


inflexible point of honor. Andrea del Sarto, like Louis 
Dubedat in my play, must have expended on the attain- 
ment of his great mastery of design and his originality in 
fresco painting more cConscientiousness and industry than 
go to the making of the reputations of a dozen ordinary 
mayors and churchwardens ; but (if Vasari is to be believed} 
when the King of France entrusted him with money to 
buy pictures for him, he stole it to spend on his wife. 
Such cases are not confined to eminent artists. Unsuccess- 
ful, unskilful men are often much more scrupulous than suc- 
cessful ones. In the ranks of ordinary skilled labor many 
men are to be found who earn good wages and are 
never out of a job because they are strong, indefatigable, 
and skilful, and who therefore are bold in a high opinion 
of themselves; but they are selfish and tyrannical, glutton- 
ous and drunken, as their wives and children know to their 
cost. 

Not only do these talented energetic people retain their 
self-respect through shameful misconduct: they do not 
even lose the respect of others, because their talents benefit 
and interest everybody, whilst their vices affect only a few. 
An actor, a painter, a composer, an author, may be as selfish 
as he likes without reproach from the public if only his 
art is superb; and he cannot fulfil this condition without 
sufficient effort and sacrifice to make him feel noble and 
martyred in spite of his selfishness. It may even happen 
that the selfishness of an artist may be a benefit to the 
public by enabling him to concentrate himself on their grati- 
fication with a recklessness of every other consideration that 
makes him highly dangerous to those about him. In sacri- 
ficing others to himself he is sacrificing them to the public 
he gratifies; and the public is quite content with that 
arrangement. The public actually has an interest in the 
artist’s vices. vy 

It has no such interest 1n the surgeon’s vices. The sur- 
geon’s art is exercised at its expense, not for its gratifica- 
tion. We do not go to the operating table as we go to the 


Preface on Doctors XXX1 


theatre, to the picture gallery, to the concert room, to be 
entertained and delighted: we go to be tormented and 
maimed lest a worse thing should befall us. It is of the 
most extreme importance to us that the experts on whose 
assurance we face this horror and suffer this mutilation 
should have no interests but our own to think of; should 
judge our cases scientifically; and should feel about them 
kindly. Let us see what guarantees we have: first for the 
science, and then for the kindness. 


Are Doctors Men of Science? 


I presume ncbody will question the existence of a widely 
spread popular delusion that every doctor is a man of science. 
It is escaped only in the very small class which under- 
stands by science something more than conjuring with 
retorts and spirit lamps, magnets and microscopes, and dis- 
covering magical cures for disease. To a sufficiently ignor- 
ant man every captain of a trading schooner is a Galileo, 
every organ-grinder a Beethoven, every piano-tuner a 
Helmholtz, every Old Bailey barrister a Solon, every Seven 
Dials pigeon-dealer a Darwin, every scrivener a Shakespear, 
every locomotive engine a miracle, and its driver no less 
wonderful than George Stephenson. As a matter of fact, 
the rank and file of doctors are no more scientific than 
their tailors; or, if you prefer to put it the reverse way, 
their tailors are no less scientific than they. Doctoring is 
an art, not a science: any layman who is interested in 
science sufficiently to take in one of the scientific journals 
and follow the literature of the scientific movement, knows 
more about it than those doctors (probably a large majority) 
who are not interested in it, and practise only to earn 
their bread. Doctoring is not even the art of keeping 
people in health (no doctor seems able to advise you what 
to eat any better than his grandmother or the nearest 
quack): it is the art of curing illnesses. Jt does happen 
exceptionally that a practising doctor makes a contribution 


c 


XXXII The Doctor’s Dilemma 


to science (my play describes a very notable one); but it 
happens much oftener that he draws disastrous conclusions 
from his clinical experience because he has no conception 
of scientific method, and believes, like any rustic, that the 
handling of evidence and statistics needs no expertness. 
The distinction between a quack doctor and a qualified 
one is mainly that only the qualified one is authorized to 
sign death certificates, for which both sorts seem to have 
about equal occasion. Unqualified practitioners now make 
large incomes as hygienists, and are resorted to as frequently 
by cultivated amateur scientists who understand quite 
well what they are doing as by ignorant people who are 
simply dupes. Bone-setters make fortunes under the very 
noses of our greatest surgeons from educated and weaithy 
patients; and some of the most successful doctors on the 
register use quite heretical methods of treating disease, and 
have qualified themselves solely for convenience. Leaving 
out of account the village witches who prescribe spells and 
sell charms, the humblest professional healers in this coun- 
try are the herbalists. These men wander through the fields 
on Sunday seeking for herbs with magic properties of curing 
disease, preventing childbirth, and the like. Each of them 
believes that he is on the verge of a great discovery, in 
which Virginia Snake Root will be an ingredient, heaven 
knows why! Virginia Snake Root fascinates the imagina- 
tion of the herbalist as mercury used to fascinate the 
alchemists. On week days he keeps a shop in which he 
sells packets of pennyroyal, dandelion, &c., labelled with 
little lists of the diseases they are supposed to cure, and 
apparently do cure to the satisfaction of the people who 
keep on buying them. I have never been able to perceive 
any distinction between the science of the herbalist and 
that of the duly registered doctor. A relative of mine 
recently consulted a doctor about some of the ordinary 
symptoms which indicate the need for a holiday and a 
change. The doctor satisfied himself that the patient’s 
heart was a little depressed. Digitalis being a drug labelled 





Preface on Doctors XXXII 


as a heart specific by the profession, he promptly adminis- 
tered a stiff dose. Fortunately the patient was a hardy 
old lady who was not easily killed. She recovered with 
no worse result than her conversion to Christian {cience, 
which owes its vogue quite as much to public despair of 
doctors as tosuperstition. I am not, observe, here concerned 
with the question as to whether the dose of digitalis was 
judicious or not; the point is, that a farm laborer consult- 
ing a herbalist would have been treated in exactly the 
same way. 


Bacteriology as a Superstition. 


The smattering of science that ail—even doctors— 
pick up from the ordinary newspapers nowadays only 
makes the doctor more dangerous than he used to be. Wise 
men used to take care to consult doctors qualified before 
1860, who were usually contemptuous of or indifferent to 
the germ theory and bacteriological therapeutics ; but now 
that these veterans have mostly retired or died, we are left in 
the hands of the generations which, having heard of microbes 
inuch as St. Thomas Aquinas heard of angels, suddenly 
concluded that the whole art of healing could be summed 
up in the formula: Find the microbe and kill it. And 
even that they did not know how to do. The sinplest 
way to kill most microbes is to throw them into an open 
street or river and let the sun shine on them, which explains 
the fact that when great cities have recklessly thrown all 
their sewage into the open river the water has sometimes 
been cleaner twenty miles below the city than thirty miles 
above it. But doctors instinctively avoid all facts that are 
reassuring, and eagerly swallow those that make it a marvel 
that anyone could possibly survive three days in an atmo- 
sphere consisting mainly of countless pathogenic germs. 
They conceive microbes as immortal until slain by a germi- 
cide administered by a duly qualified medical man. All 
through Europe people are adjured, by public notices and 


XXXIV The Doctor’s Dilemma 


even under legal penalties, not to throw their microbes inta 
the sunshine, but to collect them carefully in a handker- 
chief ; shield the handkerchief from the sun in the darkness 
and wi rmth of the pocket ; and scad it to a laundry to be 
mixed up with everybody else’s handkerchiefs, with results 
only too familiar to local health authorities. 

In the first frenzy of microbe killing, surgical instru- 
ments were dipped in carbolic oil, which was a great 
improvement on not dipping them in anything at all and 
simply using them dirty ; but as microbes are so fond of 
carbolic oil that they swarm in it, it was not a success from 
the anti-microbe point of view. Formalin was squirted into 
the circulation of consumptives until it was discovered that 
formalin nourishes the tubercle bacillus handsomely and kills 
men. The popular theory of disease is the common medical 
theory: namely, that every disease had its microbe duly 
created in the garden of Eden, and has been steadily propa- 
gating itself and producing widening circles of malignant 
disease ever since. It was plain from the first that if this 
had been even approximately true, the whole human race 
would have been wiped out by the plague long ago, and 
that every epidemic, instead of fading out as mysteriously 
as it rushed in, would spread over the whole world. It was 
also evident that the characteristic microbe of a disease 
migut be a symptom instead of a cause. An unpunctual 
man is always in a hurry; but it docs not follow that 
hurry is the cause of unpunctuality: on the contrary, what 
is the matter with the patient is sloth. When Florence 
Nightingale said bluntly that if you overcrowded your 
soldiers in dirty quarters there would be an outbreak of 
smallpox among them, she was snubbed as an ignorant 
female who did not know that smallpox can be produced 
only by the importation of its specific microbe. 

If this was the line taken about smallpox, the microbe 
of which has never yet been run down and exposed under 
the microscope by the bacteriologist, what must have been 
the ardor of conviction as to tuberculosis, tetanus, enteric 


Preface on Doctors XXXV 


fever, Maltese fever, diphtheria, and the rest of the diseases 
in which the characteristic bacillus had been identified ! 
When there was no bacillus it was assumed that, since no 
disease could exist without a bacillus, it was simply elud- 
ing observation, When the bacillus was found, as it 
frequently was, in persons who were hot suffering from 
the disease, the theory was saved by simply calling the 
bacillus an impostor, or pseudo-bacillus. The same 
boundless credulity which the public exhibit as to a 
aoctor’s power of diagnosis was shewn by the doctors 
themselves as to the analytic microbe hunters. These witch 
finders would give you a certificate of the ultimate constitu- 
tion of anything from a sample of the water from your well 
to a scrap of your lungs, for seven-and-sixpence. I do not 
suggest that the analysts were dishonest. No doubt they 
carried the analysis as far as they could «ford to carry it 
for the money. No doubt also they could afford to carry 
it far enough to be of some use. But the fact remains that 
just as doctors perform for half-a-crown, without the least 
misgiving, operations which could not be thoroughly and 
safely performed with due scientific rigor and the requisite 
apparatus by an unaided private practitioner for less than 
some thousands of pounds, sodid they proceed on the assum p- 
tion that they could get the last word of science as to the 
constituents of their pathological samples for a two-hours, 
cab fare. 


Economic Difficulties of Immunization. 


I have heard doctors affirm and deny almost every possible 
proposition as to disease and treatment. I can remember 
the time when doctors no more dreamt of consumption 
and pneumonia being infectious than they now dream of 
sea-sickness being infectious, or than so great a clinical 
observer as Sydenham dreamt of smallpox being infectious. 
I have heard doctors deny that there is such a thing as 


xxxvi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


infection. I have heard them deny the existence of hydro- 
phobia as a specific disease differing from tetanus. I have 
heard them defend prophylactic measures and prophylactic 
legislation as the sole and certain salvation of mankind 
from zymotic disease ; and I have heard them denounce 
both as malignant spreaders of cancer and lunacy. But 
the one objection I have never heard from a doctor is the 
objection that prophylaxis by the inoculatory methods most 
in vogue is an economic impossibility under our private 
practice system. They buy some stuff from somebody for 
a shilling, and inject a pennyworth of it under their patient’s 
skin for half-a-crown, concluding that, since this primitive 
rite pays the somebody and pays them, the problem of 
prophylaxis has been satisfactorily solved. The results are 
sometimes no w -rse than the ordinary results of dirt getting 
into cuts; but iecither the doctor nor the patient is quite 
satisfied unless the inoculation “takes”; that is, unless it 
produces perceptible illness and disablement. Sometimes 
both doctor and patient get more value in this direction 
than they bargain for. The results of ordinary private- 
practice-inoculation at their worst are bad enough to be 
indistinguishable from those of the most discreditable and 
dreaded disease known; and doctors, to save the credit of 
the inoculation, have been driven to accuse their patien: 
or their patient’s parents of having contracted this disease 
independently of the inoculation, an excuse which naturally 
does not make the family any more resigned, and leads to 
public recriminations in which the doctors, forgetting 
everything but the immediate quarrel, naively excuse 
themselves by admitting, and even claiming as a point in 
their favor, that it is often impossible to distinguish the 
disease produced by their inoculation and the disease they 
have accused .ne patient of contracting. And both parties 
assume that what is at issue is the scientific soundness of 
the prophylaxis. It never occurs to them that the particulat 
pathogenic germ which they intended to introduce into the 
patient’s system may be quite innocent of the catastrophe, 


fr 





Preface on Doctors XXXVII 


and that the casual dirt introduced with it may be at fault. 
When, as in the case of smallpox or cowpox, the germ has 
not yet been detected, what you inoculate is simply un- 
defined matter that has been scraped off an anything but 
chemically clean calf suffering from the disease in question. 
You take your chance of the germ being in the scrapings, 
and, lest you should kill it, you take no precautions against 
otu.er germs being in it as well. Anything may happen as 
the result of such an inoculation. Yet this is the only 
stuff of the kind which is prepared and supplied even in 
State establishments: that is, in the only establishments free 
from the commercial temptation to adulterate materials 
and scamp precautionary processes. 

Even if the germ were identified, complete precautions 
would hardly pay. It is true that microbe farming is not 
expensive. The cost of breeding and housing two head of 
cattle would provide for the breeding and housing of 
enough microbes to inoculate the entire population of the 
globe since human life first appeared on it. But the pre- 
cautions necessary to insure that the inoculation shall con- 
sist of nothing else but the required germ in the proper 
state of atteruation are avery different matter from the pre- 
cauticns necessary in the distribution and consumption of 
beefsteaks. Yet people expect to find vaccines and anti- 
toxins and the like retailed at “popular prices” in private 
enterprise shops just as they expect to find ounces of 
tobacco and papers of pins, 


The Perils of Inoculation. 


The trouble does not end with the matter to be inocu- 
lated. There is the question of the condition of the patient. 
The discoveries of Sir Almroth Wright have shewn that 
the appalling results which led to the hasty dropping in 
1894. of Koch’s tuberculin were not accidents, but perfectly 
orderly and inevitable phenomena following the injection 
of dangerously strong “vaccines” at the wrong moment, and 


xxxvill The Doctor’s Dilemma 


reinforcing the disease instead of stimulating the resistance 
to it. To ascertain the right moment a laboratory and a 
staff of experts are needed. The general practitioner, 
having no such laboratory and no such experience, has 
always chanced it, and insisted, when he was unlucky, 
that the results were not due to the inoculation, but to 
some other cause: a favorite and not very tactful one being 
the drunkenness or licentiousness of the patient. But though 
a few doctors have now learnt the danger of inoculating 
without any reference to the patient’s “opsonic index” at 
the moment of inoculation, and though those other doctors 
who are denouncing the danger as imaginary and opsonin 
as a craze or a fad, obviously do so because it involves an 
operation which they have neither the means nor the 
knowledge to perform, there is still no grasp of the econo- 
mic change in the situation. They have never been warned 
that the practicability of any method of extirpating disease 
depends not only on its efficacy, but on its cost. For 
example, just at present the world has run raving mad 
on the subject of radium, which has excited our cred- 
ulity precisely as the apparitions at Lourdes excited the 
credulity of Roman Cathoiics. Suppose it were ascertained 
that every child in the world could be rendered absolutely 
immune from all disease during its entire life by taking 
half an ounce of radium to every pint of its milk. The 
world would be none the healthier, because not even a 
Crown Prince—no, not even the son of a Chicago Meat 
King, could afford the treatment. Yet it is doubtful whether 
doctors would refrain from prescribing it on that ground. 
The recklessness with which they now recommend winter- 
ing in Egvpt or at Davos to people who cannot afford to 
go to Cornwall, and the orders given for champagne jelly 
and old port in households where such luxuries must 
obviously be acquired at the cost of stinting necessaries, 
often make one wonder whether it is possible for a man to 
go through a medical training and retain a spark « f commou 
selise. 





Preface on Doctors XXXI1X 


This sort of inconsiderateness gets cured only in the 
classes where poverty, pretentious as it is even at its worst, 
cannot pitch its pretences high enough to make it possible 
for the doctor (himself often no better off than the patient) 
to assume that the average income of an English family is 
about £2000 a year, and that it is quite easy to break up 
a home, sell an old family seat at a sacrifice, and retire 
into a foreign sanatorium devoted to some “‘treatment”’ 
that did not exist two years ago and probably will not 
exist (except as a pretext for keeping an ordinary hotel) 
two years hence. In a poor practice the doctor must 
find cheap treatments for cheap people, or humiliate and 
lose his patients either by prescribing beyond their 
means or sending them to the public hospitals. When it 
comes to prophylactic inoculation, the alternative lies 
between the complete scientific process, which can only 
be brought down to a reasonable cost by being very highly 
organized as a public service in a public institution, and 
such cheap, nasty, dangerous and scientifically spurious 
imitations as ordinary vaccination, which seems not un- 
likely to be ended, like its equally vaunted forerunner, 
XVIII. century inoculation, by a purely reactionary law 
making all sorts of vaccination, scientific or not, criminal 
offences. Naturally, the poor doctor (that is, the average 
doctor) defends ordinary vaccination frantically, as it 
means to him the bread of his children. To secure the 
vehement and practically unanimous support of the rank 
and file of the medical profession for any sort of treatment 
or operation, all that is necessary is that it can be easily 
practised by a rather shabbily dressed man in a surgically 
dirty room in a surgically dirty house without any assist- 
ance, and that the materials for it shall cost, say, a penny, 
and the charge for it toa patient with £100 a year be half- 
a-crown. And, on the other hand, a hygienic measure has 
only to be one of such refinement, difficulty, precision 
and costliness as to be quite beyond the resources of private 
practice, to be ignored or angrily denounced as a fad. 


xl The Doctor’s Dilemma 


Trade Unionism and Science. 


Here we have the explanation of the savage ranccr that 
so amazes people who imagine that the controversy con- 
cerning vaccination is a scientific one. It has really nothing 
to do with science. The medical profession, consisting 
for the most part of very poor men struggling to keep up 
appearances beyond their means, find themselves threat- 
ened with the extinction of a considerable part of their 
incomes: a part, too, that is easily and regularly earned, 
since it is independent of disease, and brings every person 
born into the nation, healthy or not, to the doctors. To 
boot, there is the occasional windfall of an epidemic, with 
its panic and rush for revaccination. Under such circum- 
stances, vaccination would be defended desperately were 
it twice as dirty, dangerous, and unscientific in method as 
it actually is. The note of fury in the defence, the feel- 
ing that the anti-vaccinator is doing a cruel, ruinous, in- 
considerate thing in a mood of malignant folly: all this, 
so puzzling to the observer who knows nothing of the 
economic side of the question, and only sees that the anti- 
vaccinator, having nothing whatever to gain and a good 
deal to lose by placing himself in opposition to the law 
and to the outcry that adds private persecution to legal 
penalties, can have no interest in the matter except the 
interest of a reformer in abolishing a corrupt and mis- 
chievous superstition, becomes intelligible the moment the 
tragedy of medical poverty and the lucrativeness of cheap 
vaccination is taken into account. 

In the face of such economic pressure as this, it is 
silly to expect that medical teaching, any more than 
medical practice, can possibly be scientific. The test to 
which all methods of treatment are finally brought is 
whether they are lucrative to doctors or not. It would be 
difficult to cite any proposition less obnoxious to science 
than that advanced by Hahnemann: to wit, that drugs 


Preface on Doctors xli 


which in large doses produce certain symptoms, counter- 
act them in very small doses, just as in more modern 
practice it is found that a sufficiently small inoculation 
with typhoid rallies our powers to resist the disease instead 
of prostrating us with it. But Hahnemann and his followers 
were frantically persecuted for a century by generations 
of apothecary-doctors whose incomes depended on the 
quantity of drugs they could induce their patients to 
swallow. These two cases of ordinary vaccination and 
homeopathy are typical of ail the rest. Just as the object 
of a trade union under existing conditions must finally be, 
not to improve the technical quality of the work done by 
its members, but to secure a living wage for them, so the 
object of the medical profession today is to secure an 
income for the private doctor; and to this consideration 
all concern for science and public health must give way 
when the two come into conflict. Fortunately they are 
not always in conflict. Up toa certain point doctors, like 
carpenters and masons, must earn their living by doing th: 
work that the public wants from them; and as it is not in 
the nature of things possible that such public want should 
be based on unmixed disutility, it may be admitted that 
doctors have their uses, real as weli as imaginary. But just 
as the best carpenter or mason will resist the introduction 
of a machine that is likely to throw him out of work, or 
the public technical education of unskilled laborers’ sons 
to compete with him, so the doctor will resist with all 
his powers of persecution every advance of science that 
threatens his income. And as the advance of scientific 
hygiene tends to make the private doctor’s visits rarer, and 
the public inspector’s frequenter, whilst the advance of 
scientific therapeutics is in the direction of treatments that 
involve highly organized laboratories, hospitals, and public 
institutions generally, it unluckily happens that the organi- 
zation of private practitioners which we call the medical 
profession is coming more and more to represent, not 
science, but desperate and embittered anti-science: a state 


xlii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


of things which is likely to get worse until the average 
doctor either depends upon or hopes for an appointment in 
the public health service for his livelihood. 

So much for our guarantees as to medical science. Let 
us now deal with the more painful subject of medical 
kindness. 


Doctors and Vivisection, 


The importance to our d>-tors of a reputation for the 
tenderest humanity is so o’ ious, and the quantity of 
benevolent work actually doe by them for nothing (a 
great deal of it from sheer good nature) so large, that at 
first sight it seems unaccountable that they should not 
only throw all their credit away, but deliberately choose 
to band themselves publicly with outlaws and scoundrels 
by claiming that in the pursuit of their professional know- 
ledge they should be free from the restraints of law, of 
honor, of pity, of remorse, of everything that distinguishes 
a.1 orderly citizen from a South Sea buccanecr, or a philo- 
sopher from an inquisitor. For here we look in vain for 
either an economic or a sentimental motive. In every 
generation fools and blackguards have made this claim; 
and honest and reasonabie men, led by the strongest con- 
temporary minds, have repudiated it and exposed its crude 
rascality. From Shakespear and Dr. Johnson to Ruskin and 
Mark Twain, the natural abhorrence of sane mankind for 
the vivisector’s cruelty, and the contempt of able thinkers 
for his imbecile casuistry, have been expressed by the most 
popular spokesmen of humanity. If the medical profession 
were to outdo the Anti-Vivisection Societies in a general 
professional protest against the practice and principles of 
the vivisectors, every doctor in the kingdom would gain 
substantially by: the immense relief and reconciliation 
which would follow such a reassurance of the humanity 
of the doctor. Not one doctor in a thousand is a vivisector, 
or has any interest in vivisection, either pecuniary or in- 
tellectual, or would treat his dog cruelly or allow anyone 


Preface on Doctors . xlili 


else to doit. It is true that the doctor complies with the 
professional fashion of defending vivisection, and assuring 
you that people like Shakespear and Dr. Johnson and Ruskin 
and Mark Twain are ignorant sentimentalists, just as he 
complies with any other silly fashion: the mystery is, how 
it became the fashion in spite of its being so injurious to 
those who follow it. Making all possible allowance for 
the effect of the brazen lying of the few men who bring a 
rush of despairing patients to their doors by professing in 
letters to the newspapers to have learnt from vivisection 
how to cure certain diseases, and the assurances of the 
sayers of smooth things that the practice is quite painless 
under the law, it is still difficult to find any civilized 
motive for an attitude by which the medical profession 
has everything to lose and nothing to gain. 


The Primitive Savage Motive. 


I say civilized motive advisedly; for primitive tribal 
motives are easy enough to find. Every savage chief who 
is not a Mahomet learns that if he wishes to strike the 
imagination of his tribe—and without doing that he cannot 
rule them—he must terrify or revolt them from time to 
time by acts of hideous cruelty or disgusting unnaturalness. 
We are far from being as superior to such tribes as we 
imagine. It is very doubtful indeed whether Peter the 
Great could have effected the changes he made in Russia 
if he had not fascinated and intimidated his people by his 
monstrous cruelties and grotesque escapades. Had he been 
a nineteenth-century king of England, he would have had 
to wait for some huge accidental calamity: a cholera 
epidemic, a war, or an insurrection, before waking us up 
sufficiently to get anything done. Vivisection helps the 
doctor to rule us as Peter ruled the Russians. ‘The notion 
that the man who does dreadful things is superhuman, and 
that therefore he ¢an also do wonderful things either as 
ruler, avenger, r, healer, or what not, is by no means ‘confined to 


xliv The Doctor’s Dilemma 


barvarians. Just as the manifold wickednesses and stupidities 
OF our criminal code are supported, not by any general 
comprehension of law or study of jurisprudence, not even 
by simp‘s vindictiveness, but by the superstition that a 
calamity of any sort must be expiated by a human sacrifice; 
so the wickednesses and stupidities of our medicine men 
are rooted in superstitions that have no more to do with 
science than the traditional ceremony of christening an 
ironclad has to do with the effectiveness of its armament. 
We have only to turn to Macaulay’s description of the 
treatment of Charles II. in his last illness to see how 
strongly his physicians felt that their only chance of cheating 
death was by outraging nature in tormenting and disgusting 
their unfortunate patient. True, this was more than two 
centuries ago; but I have heard my own nineteenth-century 
grandfather describe the cupping and firing and nauseous 
medicines of his time with perfect credulity as to their 
beneficial effects; and some more modern treatments 
appear to me quite as barbarous. It is in this way that 
vivisection pays the doctor. It appeals to the fear and 
credulity of the savage in us ; and without fear and credulity 
half the private doctor’s occupation and seven-eighths of 
his influence would be gone. 


The Higher Motive. The Tree of 
Knowledge. 


But the greatest force of all on the side of vivisection 
is the mighty and indeed divine force of curiosity. Here 
we have no decaying tribal instinct which men strive to 
root out of themselves as they strive to root out the tiger’s 
lust for blood. On the contrary, the curiosity of the ape, 
or of the child who pulls out the legs and wings of a fly 
to see what it will do without them, or who, on being told 
that a cat dropped out of the window will always fall on 
its legs, immediately tries the experiment on the nearest 
cat from the highest window in the house (I protest I did 





Preface on Doctors xlv 


it myself from the first floor only), is as nothing compared 
to the thirst for knowledge of the philosopher, the poet, 
the biologist, and the naturalist. I have always despised 
Adam because he had to be tempted by the woman, as she 
was by the serpent, before he could be induced to pluck the| 
apple from the tree of knowledge. J should have swallowed) 
every apple on the tree the moment the owner’s back was! 
turned. When Gray said “ Where ignorance is bliss, ’tis 
folly to be wise,” he forgot that it is godlike to be wise; and 
since nobody wants bliss particularly, or could stand more 
than a very brief taste of it if it were attainable, and since 
everybody, by the deepest law of the Life Force, desires 
to be godlike, it is stupid, and indeed blasphemous and 
despairing, to hope that the thirst for knowledge will 
either diminish or consent to be subordinated to any other 
end whatsoever. We shall see later on that the claim that 
has arisen in this way for the unconditioned pursuit of 
knowledge is as idie as all dreams of unconditioned activity; 
but none the less the right to knowledge must be regarded 
as a fundamental human right. ‘The fact that men of 
science have had to fight so hard to secure its recognition, 
and are still so vigorously persecuted when they discover 
anything that is not quite palatable to vulgar people, makes 
them sorely jealous for that right; and when they hear a 
popular outcry for the suppression of a method of research 
which has an air of being scientific, their first instinct is 
to rally to the defence of that method without further 
consideration, with the result that they sometimes, as in 
the case of vivisection, presently find themselves fighting 
on a false issue. 


The Flaw in the Argument. 


T may as well pause here to explain their error. The 
right to know is like the right to live. It is fundamental 
and unconditional in its assumption that knowledge, like 
life, is a desirable thing, though any fool can prove that 


xlvi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


ignorance is bliss, and that ‘a little knowledge is a dan- 
gerous thing ” (a little being the most that any of us can 
attain), as easily as that the pains of life are more numerous 
and constant than its pleasures, and that therefore we 
should all be better dead. The logic is unimpeachable; 
but its only effect is to make us say that if these are the 
conclusions logic leads to, so much the worse for logic, 
after which curt dismissal of Folly, we continue living 
and learning by instinct: that is, as of right. We legislate 
on the assumption that no man may be killed on the 
strength of a demonstration that he would be happier in 
his grave, not even if he is dying slowly of cancer and begs 
the doctor to despatch him quickly and mercifully. To 
get killed lawfully he must violate somebody else’s right 
to live by committing murder. But he is by no means free 
to live unconditionally. In society he can exercise his 
right to live only under very stiff conditions. In countries 
where there is compulsory military service he may even 
have to throw away his individual life to save the life of 
the community. . 

It is just so in the case of the right to knowledge. It is 
a right that is as yet very imperfectly recognized in practice. 
But in theory it is admitted that an adult person in pursuit 
of knowledge must not be refused it on the ground that he 
would be better or happier without it. Parents and priests 
may forbid knowledge to those who accept their authority; 
and social taboo may be made effective by acts of legal 
persecution under cover of repressing blasphemy, obscenity, 
and sedition; but no government now openly forbids its 
subjects to pursue knowledge on the ground that knowledge 
is in itself a bad thing, or that it is possible for any of us 
to have too much of it. 


Limitations of the Right to Knowledge. 


But neither does any government exempt the pursuit of 
knowledge, any more than the pursuit of life, liberty, and 





Preface on Doctors xlvii 


happiness (as the American Constitution puts it), from all 
social conditions. No man is allowed to put his mother 
into the stove because he desires to know how long an 
adult woman will survive at a temperature of 500° Fahren- 
heit, no matter how important or interesting that particular 
addition to the store of human knowledge may be. Aman 
who did so would have short work made not only of his right 
to knowledge, but of his right to live and all his other 
rights at the same time. The right to knowledge is not 
the only right; and its exercise must be limited by respect 
for other rights, and for its own exercise by others. When 
a man says to Society, “ May I torture my mother in 
pursuit of knowledge?” Society replies, “‘No.” If he 
pleads, ‘What! Not even if I have a chance of finding 
out how to cure cancer by doing it?” Society still says, 
“ Not even then.” If the scientist, making the best of his 
disappointment, goes on to ask may he torture_a dog, the 
stupid and callous people who do not realize that_a dog is 
ca_icllow-creature, and sometimes a good friend, may say 
Yes, though Shakespear, Dr Johnson, and their like may say 
No. But @vén those who say~“*You may torture a dog’”” 
never say “ You may torture my dog.” And nobody says, 
“Yes, because in the pursuit of knowledge you may do as 
you please.” Just as even the stupidest people say, in 
effect, “If you cannot attain to knowledge without burning 
your mother you must do without knowledge,” so the 
wisest people say, “If you cannot attain to knowledge 
without torturing a dog, you must do without knowledge.” 


A False Alternative. 


But in practice you cannot persuade any wise man that 
this alternative can ever be forced on anyone but a fool, 
or that a fool can be trusted to learn anything from any 
experiment, cruel or humane, The Chinaman who burnt 
down his house to roast his pig was no doubt honestly 
unable to conceive any less disastrous way of cooking his 

d 


xl viii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


dinner; and the roast must have been spoiled after all (a 
perfect type of the average vivisectionist experiment); but 
this did not prove that the Chinaman was right: it only 
proved that the Chinaman was an incapable cook and, 
fundamentally, a fool. 

Take another celebrated experiment: one in sanitary 
reform. In the days of Nero Rome was in the same pre- 
dicament as London to-day. If some one would burn down 
London, and it were rebuilt, as it would now have to be, 
subject to the sanitary by-laws and Building Act provisions 
enforced by the London County Council, it would be 
enormously improved; and the average lifetime of Lon- 
doners would be considerably prolonged. Nero argued in 
the same way about Rome. He employed incendiaries to 
set It on fire; and he played the harp in scientific raptures 
whilst it was burning. I am so far of Nero’s way of think- 
ing that I have often said, when consulted by despairing 
sanitary reformers, that what London needs to make her 
healthy is an earthquake. Why, then, it may be asked, do 
not I, as a public-spirited man, employ incendiaries to set 
it on fire, with a heroic disregard of the consequences to 
myself and others? Any vivisector would, if he had the 
courage of his opinions. The reasonable answer is that 
London can be made healthy without burning her down; 
and that as we have not enough civic virtue to make her 
healthyin a humane and economical way,we should not have 
enough to rebuild her in that way. In the old Hebrew 
legend, God lost patience with the world as Nero did with 
Rome, and drowned everybody except a single family. - 
But the result was that the progeny of that family repro- 
duced ali the vices of their predecessors so exactly that the 
misery caused by the flood might just as well have been 
spared: things went on just as they did before. In the 
same way, the list of diseases which vivisection claims to . 
have cured is long; but the returns of the Registrar- © 
General shew that people still persist in dying of them as — 
if vivisection had never been heard of. Any fool can burn 








Preface on Doctors xlix 


down a city or cut an animal open; and an exceptionally 
foolish fool is quite likely to promise enormous benefits to 
the race as the result of such activities. But when the 
constructive, benevolent part of the business comes to be 
- done, the same want of imagination, the same stupidity and 
cruelty, the same laziness and want of perseverance that 
prevented Nero or the vivisector from devising or pushing 
through humane methods, prevents him from bringing 
order out of the chaos and happiness out of the misery he 
has made. At one time it seemed reasonable enough to 
declare that it was impossible to find whether or not there 
was a stone inside a man’s body except by exploring it 
with a knife, or to find out what the sun is made of with- 
out visiting it ina balloon. Both these impossibilities have 
been achieved, but not by vivisectors. The Réntgen rays 
need not hurt the patient; and spectrum analysis involves 
no destruction. After such triumphs of humane experi- 
ment and reasoning, it is useless to assure us that there is 
no other key to knowledge except cruelty. When the 
vivisector offers us that assurance, we reply simply and 
contemptuously, ‘‘ You mean that you are not clever or 
humane or energetic enough to find one.” 


Cruelty for its own Sake. 

It will now, I hope, be clear why the attack on vivi- 
section is not an attack on the right to knowledge: why, 
indeed, those who have the deepest conviction of the 
sacredness of that right are the leaders of the attack. No 
knowledge is finally impossible of human attainment; for 
even though it may be beyond our present capacity, the 
needed capacity is not unattainable. Consequently no 
method of investigation is the only method; and no law_ 


——— 


forbidding any particular method can cut us off from the 
knowle hi 


e we hope to gain by it. The only knowledge 

wre lose by forbidding cruelty 1s knowledge at first hand 

of crnelty itself which 1s precisely the knowledge humane 
people wish to be spared, 


1 The Doctor’s Dilemma 


But the question remains: Do we all really wish to be 
spared that knowledge? Are humane methods really to 
be preferred to cruel ones? Even if the experiments come 
to nothing, may not their cruelty be enjoyed for its own 
sake, as a sensational luxury? Let us face these questions 
boldly, not shrinking from the fact that cruelty is one of 
the primitive pleasures of mankind, and that the detection 
of its Protean disguises as law, education, medicine, dis- 
cipline, sport and so forth, is one of the most difficult of 
the unending tasks of the legislator. 


Our own Cruelties. 

At first blush it may seem not only unnecessary, but even 
indecent, to discuss such a proposition as the elevation of 
cruelty to the rank of a human right. Unnecessary, because 
no vivisector confesses to a love of cruelty for its own sake 
or claims any general fundainental right to be cruel. In- 
decent, because there is an accepted convention to repudiate 
cruelty ; and vivisection is only tolerated by the law on con- 
dition that, like judicial torture, it shall be done as merci- 
fully as the nature of the practice allows, But the moment 
the controversy becomes embittered, the recriminations 
bandied between the opposed parties bring us face-to-face 
with some very ugly truths. On one occasion I was invited 
to speak at a large Anti-Vivisection meeting in the Queen’s 
Hall in London. I found myself on the platform with fox 
hunters, tame stag hunters, men and women whose calendar 
was divided, not by pay days and quarter days, but by 
seasons for killing animals for sport: the fox, the hare, the 
otter, the partridge and the rest having each its appointed 
date for slaughter. The iadies among us wore hats and cloaks 
and head-dresses obtained by wholesale massacres, ruthless 
trappings, callous extermination of our fellow creatures. 
We insisted on our butchers supplying us with white 
veal, and were large and constant consumers of paté de foie 
gras: both comestibles being obtained by revolting methods. 
We sent our sons to public schools where indecent flog- 








Preface on Doctors li 


ging is a recognized method of taming the young human 
animal. Yet we were all in hysterics of indignation at the 
cruelties of the vivisectors. These, if any were present, must 
have smiled sardonically at such inhuman humanitarians, 
whose daily habits and fashionable amusements cause more 
suffering in England in a week than ali the vivisectors of 
Europe do in a year. I made a very effective speech, not 
exclusively against vivisection, but against cruelty; and I 
have never been asked to speak since by that Society, nor 
do I expect to be, as I should probably give such offence to 
its most afluent subscribers that its attempts to suppress 
vivisection would be seriously hindered. But that does not 
prevent the vivisectors from freely using the “youre 
another ” retort, and using it with justice. 

We must therefore give ourselves no airs of superiority 
when denouncing the cruelties of vivisection. We all do 
just as horrible things, with even less excuse. But in making 
that admission we are also making short work of the virtuous 
airs with which we are sometimes referred to the humanity 
of the medical profession as a guarantee that vivisection is 
not abused—much as if our burglars should assure us that 
they are too honest to abuse the practice of burgling. We 
are, as a matter of fact, a cruel nation; and our habit of dis- 
guising our vices by giving polite names to the offences we 
are determined to commit, does not, unfortunately for my 
own comfort, impose on me. Vivisectors can hardly pretend 
to be better than the classes from which they are drawn, 
or those above them; and if these classes are capable of 
sacrificing animals in various cruel ways under cover of 
sport, fashion, education, discipline, and even, when the 
cruel sacrifices are human sacrifices, of political economy, 
it is idle for the vivisector to pretend that he is incapable 
of practising cruelty for pleasure or profit or both under 
the cloak of science. We are all tarred with the same brush; 
and the vivisectors are not slow to remind us of it, and to 
protest vehemently against being branded as exceptionally 
cruel and as devisers of horrible instruments of torture by 


hii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


people whose main notion of enjoyment is cruel sport, and 
whose requirements in the way of villainously cruel traps 
occupy pages of the catalogue of the Army and Navy Stores. 


The Scientific Investigation of Cruelty. 


There is in man a specific lust for cruelty which infects 
even his passion of pity and makes it savage. Simple disgust 
at cruelty is very rare. The people who turn sick and faint 
and those who gloat are often alike in the pains they take 
to witness executions, floggings, operations or any other 
exhibitions of suffering, especially those involving bloodshed, 
blows, and laceration. A craze for cruelty can be developed 
just as a craze for drink can; and nobody who attempts to 
ignore cruelty asa possible factor in the attraction of vivisec- 
tion and even of anti-vivisection, or in the credulity with 
which we accept its excuses, can be regarded as a scientific 
investigator of it. Those who accuse vivisectors of indulging 
the well-known passion of cruelty under the cloak of re- 
search are therefore putting forward a strictly scientific 
psychological hypothesis, which is also simple, human, 
obvious, and probable. It may be as wounding to the per- 
sonal vanity of the vivisector as Darwin’s Origin of Species 
was to the people who could not bear to think that they — 
were cousins to the monkeys (remember Goldsmith’s anger 
when he was told that he could not move his upper jaw); but 
science has to consider only the truth of the hypothesis, 
and not whether conceited people will like it or not. In 
vain do the sentimental champions of vivisection declare 
themselves the most humane of men, inflicting suffering 
only to relieve it, scrupulous in the use of anesthetics, and 
void of all passion except the passion of pity for a disease- 
ridden world. The really scientific investigator answers that 
the question cannot be settled by hysterical protestations, 
and that if the vivisectionist rejects deductive reasoning, he 
had better clear his character by his own favorite method 
of experiment. 





Preface on Doctors liti 


Suggested Laboratory Tests of the 
Vivisector’s Emotions. 


Take the hackneyed case of the Italian who tortured 
mice, ostensibly to find out about the effects of pain rather 
less than the nearest dentist could have told him, and who 
boasted of the ecstatic sensations (he actually used the word 
love) with which he carried out his experiments. Or the 
gentleman who starved sixty dogs to death to establish the 
fact that a dog deprived of food gets progressively lighter 
and weaker, becoming remarkably emaciated, and finally 
dying: an undoubted truth, but ascertainable without 
laboratory experiments by a simple enquiry addressed to 
the nearest policeman, or, failing him, to any sane person 
in Europe. The Italian is diagnosed as a cruel voluptuary : 
the dog-starver is passed over as such a hopeless fool that 
it is impossible to take any interest in him. Why not test 
the diagnosis scientifically? Why not perform a careful 
series of experiments on persons under the influence of 
voluptuous ecstasy, so as to ascertain its physiological 
symptoms? Then perform a second series on persons en- 
gaged in mathematical work or machine designing, so as to 
ascertain the symptoms of cold scientific activity? Then 
note the symptoms of a vivisector performing a cruel ex- 
periment ; and compare them with the voluptuary symptoms 
and the mathematical symptoms? Such experiments would 
be quite as interesting and important as any yet undertaken 
by the vivisectors. They might open a line of investigation 
which would finally make, for instance, the ascertainment 
of the guilt or innocence of an accused person a much 
exacter process than the very fallible methods of our 
criminal courts. But instead of proposing such an investiga- 
tion, our vivisectors offer us all the pious protestations and 
all the huffy recriminations that any common unscientific 
mortal offers when he is accused of unworthy conduct, 


liv The Doctor’s Dilemma 


Routine. 


Yet most vivisectors would probably come triumphant 
out of such a series of experiments, because vivisection is 
now a routine, like butchering or hanging or flogging; and 
many of the men who practise it do so only because it has 
been established as part of the profession they have adopted. 
Far from enjoying it, they have simply overcome their 
natural repugnance and become indifferent to it, as men 
inevitably become indifferent to anything they do often 
enough, It is this dangerous power of custom that makes 
it so difficult to convince the common sense of mankind 
that any established commercial or professional practice 
has its root in passion. Let a routine once spring from 
passion, and you will presently find thousands of routineers 
following it passionlessly for a livelihood. Thus it always 
seems strained to speak of the religious convictions of a 
clergyman, because nine out of ten clergymen have no re- 
ligious convictions: they are ordinary officials carrying on 
a routine of baptizing, marrying, and churching; praying, 
reciting, and preaching; and, like solicitors or doctors, 
getting away from their duties with relief to hunt, to 
garden, to keep bees, to go into society, and the like. In 
the same way many people do cruel and vile things with- 
out being in the least cruel or vile, because the routine to 
which they have been brought up is superstitiously cruel 
and vile. To say that every man who beats his children 
and every schoolmaster who flogs a pupil is a conscious 
debauchee is absurd: thousands of dull, conscientious 
people beat their children conscientiously, because they 
were beaten themselves and think children ought to be 
beaten. The ill-tempered vulgarity that instinctively 
strikes at and hurts a thing that annoys it (and all children 
are annoying), and the simple stupidity that requires from 
a child perfection beyond the reach of the wisest and best 
adults (perfect truthfulness coupled with perfect abedience 


Preface on Doctors lv 


is quite a common condition of leaving a child unwhipped), 
produce a good deal of flagellation among people who not 
only do not lust after it, but who hit the harder because 
they are angry at having to perform an uncomfortable 
duty. These people will beat merely to assert their 
authority, or to carry out what they conceive to be a divine 
order on the strength of the precept of Solomon recorded 
in the Bible, which carefully adds that Solomon com- 
pletely spoilt his own son and turned away from the god 
of his fathers to the sensuous idolatry in which he ended 
his days. 

In the same way we find men and women practising 
vivisection as senselessly as a humane butcher, who adores 
his fox terrier, will cut a calf’s throat and hang it up by 
its heels to bleed slowly to death because it is the custom 
to eat veal and insist on its being white; or as a German 
purveyor nails a goose to a board and stuffs it with food 
because fashionable people eat paté de foie gras; or as the 
crew of a whaler breaks in on a colony of seals and clubs 
them to death in wholesale massacre because ladies want 
sealskin jackets; or as fanciers blind singing birds with 
hot needles, and mutilate the ears and tails of dogs and 
horses. Let cruelty or kindness or anything else once 
become customary and it will be practised by people to 
whom it is not at all natural, but whose rule of life is 
simply to do only what everybody else does, and who would 
lose their employment and starve if they indulged in any 
peculiarity. A respectable man will lie daily, in speech 
and in print, about the qualities of the article he lives by 
selling, because it is customary to do so. He will flog his 
boy for telling a lie, because it is customary to do so. He 
will also flog him for not telling a lie if the boy tells in- 
convenient or disrespectful truths, because it is customary 
to do so. He will give the same boy a present on his birth- 
day, and buy him a spade and bucket at the seaside, because 
it is customary to do so, being all the time neither par- 
ticularly mendacious, nor particularly cruel, nor particularly 


Ivi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


generous, but simply incapable of ethical judgment or 
independent action. 

Just so do we find a crowd of petty vivisectionists daily 
committing atrocities and stupidities, because it is the 
custom to do so. Vivisection is customary as part of the 
routine of preparing lectures in medical schools. For in- 
stance, there are two ways of making the action of the 
heart visible to students. One, a barbarous, ignorant, and 
thoughtless way, is to stick little flags into a rabbit’s heart 
and let the students see the flags jump. The other, an 
elegant, ingenious, well-informed, and instructive way, is 
to put a sphygmograph on the student’s wrist and let him 
see a record of his heart’s action traced by a needle on a 
slip of smoked papcr. But it has become the custom for 
lecturers to teach from the rabbit; and the lecturers are 
not original enough to get out of their groove. Then there 
are the demonstrations which are made by cutting up 
frogs with scissors. The most humane man, however re- 
pugnant the operation may be to him at first, cannot do it 
at lecture after lecture for months without finally—and 
that very soon—feeling no more for the frog than if he 
were cutting up pieces of paper. Such clumsy and lazy 
ways of teaching are based on the cheapness of frogs and 
rabbits. If machines were as cheap as frogs, engineers 
would not only be taught the anatomy of machines and 
the functions of their parts: they would also have machines 
misused and wrecked before them so that they might learn 
as much as possible by using their eyes, and as little as 
possible by using their brains and imaginations. Thus we 
have, as part of the routine of teaching, a routine of vivi- 
section which soon produces complete indifference to it on 
the part even of those who are naturally humane. If they 
pass on from the routine of lecture preparation, not into 
general practice, but into research work, they carry this 
acquired indifference with them into the laboratory, where 
any atrocity is possible, because all atrocities satisfy 
curiosity. The routine man is in the majority jn his pro 





Preface on Doctors Mvii 


fession always: consequently the moment his practice is 
tracked down to its source in human passion there is a 
great and quite sincere poohpoohing from himself, from 
the mass of the profession, and from the mass of the public, 
which sees that the average doctor is much too common- 
place and decent a person to be capable of passionate 
wickedness of any kind. 

Here, then, we have in vivisection, as in all the other 
tolerated and instituted cruelties, this anti-climax: that only 
a negligible percentage of those who practise and conse- 
quently defend it get any satisfaction out of it, Asin Mr. 
Galsworthy’s play Justice the useless and detestable torture 
of solitary imprisonment is shewn at its worst without the 
introduction of a single cruel person into the drama, so it 
would be possible to represent all the torments of vivisection 
dramatically without introducing a single vivisector who 
had not felt sick at his first experience in the laboratory. 
Not that this can exonerate any vivisector from suspicion 
of enjoying his work (or der work : a good deal of the vivi- 
section in medical schools is done by wemen). In every 
autobiography which records a real experience of school or 
prison life, we find that here and there among the routineers 
there is to be found the genuine amateur, the orgiastic 
flogging schoolmaster or the nagging warder, who has sought 
out a cruel profession for the sake of its cruelty. But it is 
the genuine routineer who is the bulwark of the practice, 
because, though you can excite public fury against a Sade, 
a Bluebeard, or a Nero, you cannot rouse any feeling against 
dull Mr. Smith doing his duty: that is, doing the usual 
thing. He is so obviously no better and no worse than 
anyone else that it is difficult to conceive that the things 
he does are abominable. If you would see public dislike 
surging up in a moment against an individual, you must 
watch one who does something unusual, no matter how 
sensible it may be. The name of Jonas Hanway lives as 
that of a brave man because he was the first who dared to 
appear in the streets of this rainy island with an umbrella. 


lvili The Doctor’s Dilemma 


The Old Line between Man and Beast. 


But there is stiil a distinction to be clung to by those who 
dare not tell themselves the truth about the medical pro- 
fession because they are so helplessly dependent on it when 
death threatens the household. That distinction is the line 
that separates the brute from the man in the old classifica- 
tion. Granted, they will plead, that we are all cruel ; yet 
the tame-stag-hunter does not hunt men ; and the sports- 
man who lets a leash of greyhounds loose on a hare would 
be horrified at the thought of letting them loose on a human 
child. The lady who gets her cloak by flaying a sable does 
not flay a negro; nor does it ever occur to her that her veal 
cutlet might be improved on by a slice of tender baby. 

Now there was a time when some trust could be placed 
in this distinction. The Roman Catholic Church still 
maintains, with what it must permit me to call a stupid 
obstinacy, and in spite of St. Francis and St. Anthony, that 
animals have no souls and no rights; so that you cannot 
sin against an animal, or against God by anything you 
may choose to do to an animal. Resisting the temptation 
to enter on an argument as to whether you may not sin 
against your own soul if you are unjust or cruel to the least 
of those whom St. Francis called his little brothers, I have 
only to point out here that nothing could be more despic- 
ably superstitious in the opinion of a vivisector than the 
notion that science recognizes any such step in evolution as 
the step from a physical organism to an immortal soul, That 
conceit has been taken out of all our men of science, and 
out of all our doctors, by the evolutionists ; and when it is 
considered how completely obsessed biclogical science has 
become in our days, not by the full scope of evolution, but 
by that particular method of it which has neither s:nse nor 
purpose nor life nor anything human, much less geullike, in 
it: by the method, that is, of so-called Natural Selection 
(meaning no selection at all, but mere dead accident and 





Preface on Doctors lix 


luck), the folly of trusting to vivisectors to hold the human 
animal any more sacred than the other animals becomes so 
clear that it would be waste of time to insist further on it. 
As a matter of fact the man who once concedes to the vivi- 
sector the right to put a dog outside the laws of honor and 
fellowship, concedes to him also the right to put himself 
outside them ; for he is nothing to the vivisector but a 
more highly developed, and consequently more interesting- 
to-experiment-on vertebrate than the dog. 


Vivisecting the Human Subject. 


I have in my hand a printed and published account by a 
doctor of how he tested his remedy for pulmonary tubercu- 
losis, which was, to inject a powerful germicide directly 
into the circulation by stabbing a vein with a syringe. He 
was one of those doctors who are able to command public 
sympathy by saying, quite truly, that when they discovered 
that the proposed treatment was dangerous, they experi- 
mented thenceforth on themselves. In this case the doctor 
was devoted enough to carry his experiments to the point 
of running serious risks, and actually making himself very 
uncomfortable. But he did not begin with himself. His 
first experiment was on two hospital patients. On receiv- 
ing a message from the hospital to the effect that these two 
’ martyrs to therapeutic science had all but expired in con- 
vulsions, he experimented on a rabbit, which instantly 
dropped dead. It was then, and not until then, that he 
began to experiment on himself, with the germicide 
modified in the direction indicated by the experiments 
made on the two patients and the rabbit. As a good many 
people countenance vivisection because they fear that if 
the experiments are not made on rabbits they will be made 
on themselves, it is worth noting that in this case, where 
both rabbits and men were equally available, the men, 
being of course enormously more instructive, and costing 
nothing, were experimented on first. Once grant the 


lx The Doctor’s Dilemma 


ethics of the vivisectionists and you not only sanction the 
experiment on the human subject, but make it the first duty 
of the vivisector. If a guinea pig may be sacrificed for 
the sake of the very little that can be learnt from it, shall 
not a man be sacrificed for the sake of the great deal that 
can be learnt from him? At all events, he is sacrificed, as this 
typical case shows, I may add (not that it touches the argu- 
ment) that the doctor, the patients, and the rabbit all suffered 
in vain, as far as the hoped-for rescue of the race from 
pulmonary consumption is concerned. 


“The Lie is a European Power.” 


Now at the very time when the lectures describing these 
experiments were being circulated in print and discussed 
eagerly by the medical profession, the customary denials 
that patients are experimented on were as loud, as indig- 
nant, as high-minded as ever, in spite of the few intelligent 
doctors who point out rightly that all treatments are experi- 
ments on the patient. And this brings us to an obvious 
but mostly overlooked weakness in the vivisector’s position : 
that is, his inevitable forfeiture of all claim to have his word 
believed. It is hardly to be expected that a man who does 
not hesitate to vivisect for the sake of science will hesitate 
to lie about it afterwards to protect it from what he deems 
the ignorant seutimentality of the laity. When the public 
conscience stirs uneasily and threatens suppression, there is 
never wanting some doctor of eminent position and high 
character who will sacrifice himself devotedly to the cause 
of science by coming forward to assure the public on his 
honor that all experiments on animals are completely pain- 
less ; although he must know that the very experiments 
which first provoked the anti-vivisection movement by 
their atrocity were experiments to ascertain the physio- 
logical effects of the sensation of extreme pain (the much 
more interesting physiology of pleasure remains uninvesti- 
gated) and that all experiments in which sensation is a 





Preface on Doctors Ixi 


factor are voided by its suppression. Besides, vivisection 
may be painless in cases where the experiments are very 
cruel. Ifa person scratches me witha poisoned dagger so 
gently that I do not feel the scratch, he has achieved a 
painless vivisection ; but if I presently die in torment I am 
not likely to consider that his humanity is amply vindicated 
by his gentleness. A cobra’s bite hurts so little that the 
creature is almost, legally speaking, a vivisector who inflicts 
no pain. By giving his victims chloroform before biting 
them he could comply with the law completely. 

Here, then, is a pretty deadlock. Public support of vivi- 
section is founded almost wholly on the assurances of the 
vivisectors that great public benefits may be expected from 
the practice. Not for a moment do J suggest that such a 
defence would be valid even if proved. But when the 
witnesses begin by alleging that in the cause of science all 
the customary ethical obligations (which include the 
obligation to tell the truth) are suspended, what weight can 
any reasonable person give to their testimony? I would 
rather swear fifty lies than take an animal which had licked 
my hand in good fellowship and torture it. If I did torture 
the dog, I should certainly not have the face to turn round 
and ask how any person dare suspect an honorable man like 
myself of telling lies. Most sensible and humane people 
would, I hope, reply flatly that honorable men do not 
behave dishonorably even to dogs, The murderer who, 
when asked by the chaplain whether he had any other 
crimes to confess, replied indignantly ‘“‘ What do you take 
me for?” reminds us very strongly of the vivisectors who are 
so deeply hurt when their evidence 1s set aside as worthless. 


An Argument which would Defend any 
Crime. 


The Achilles heel of vivisection, however, is not to be 
found in the pain it causes, but in the line of argument by 
which it is justified. The medical code regarding it is 


Ixii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


simply criminal anarchism at its very worst. Indeed, no 
criminal has yet had the impudence to argue as every vivi- 
eer came 

sector argues. No burglar contends that as it is admittedly 


important to have ‘money to spend, and~as the object of 
burglary is to provide the burglar with money to spend, 
and as in many instances ‘it has “achieved this object, there- 
fore the burglar isa public benefactor and the police are 
ignorant “sentimentalists. No_ highway robber has yet 
harrowed us with denunciations of the puling moralist who 
allows his child to suffer all the evils of poverty because 


cértain faddists think it dishonest to garotte an alderman. 


Thieves and assassins understand quite well that there are 
paths of acquisition, even of the best things, that are barred 
toall men of honor, Again, has the silliest burglar ever pre- 
tended that to puta stop to burglary is to put a stop to 
industry? All the vivisections that have been performed 
since the world began have produced nothing so important 
as the innocent and honorable discovery of radiography; 
and one of the reasons why radiography was not discovered 
sooner was that the men whose business it was to discover 
new clinical methods were coarsening and stupefying them- 
selves with the sensual villanies and cutthroat’s casuistries 
of vivisection. The law of the conservation of energy holds 
good in physiology as in other things: every vivisector 
is a deserter from the army of honorable investigators. But 
the vivisector does not see this. He not only calls his 
methods scientific: he contends that there are no other 
scientific methods. When you express your natural loath- 
ing for his cruelty and your natural contempt for his 
stupidity, he imagines that you are attacking science. Yet 
he has no inkling of the method and temper of science. The 
point at issue being plainly whether he is a rascal or not, he 
not only insists that the real point is whether some hot- 
headed anti-vivisectionist is a liar (which he proves by 
ridiculously unscientific assumptions as to the degree of 
accuracy attainable in human statement), but never dreams 
of offering any scientific evidence by his own methods, 





Preface on Doctors Ixiii 

There are many paths to knowledge already discovered ; 
and no enlightened man doubts that there are many more 
waiting to be discovered. Indeed, all paths lead to know- 
ledge; because even the vilest and stupidest action teaches 
us something about vileness and stupidity, and may 
accidentally teach us a good deal more: for instance, a cut- 
throat learns (and perhaps teaches) the anatomy of the 
carotid artery and jugular vein; and there can be no 
question that the burning of St. joan of Arc must have been 
a most instructive and interesting experiment to a good 
observer, and could have been made more so if it had been 
carried out by skilled physiologists under laboratory condi- 
tions. The earthquake in San Francisco proved invaluable 
as an experiment in the stability of giant steel buildings ; 
and the ramming of the Victoria by the Camperdown 
settled doubtful points of the greatest importance in naval 
warfare. According to vivisectionist logic our builders 
would be justified in producing artificial earthquakes with 
dynamite, and our admirals in contriving catastrophes at 
naval manceuvres, in order to follow up the line of research 
thus accidentally discovered. 

The truth is, if the acquisition of knowledge justifies every 
sort of conduct, it justifies any sort of conduct, from the 
illumination of Nero’s feasts by burning human beings 
alive (another interesting experiment) to the simplest act 
of kindness. And in the light of that truth it is clear that 
the exemption of the pursuit of knowledge from the laws of 
honor is the most hideous conceivable enlargement of 
anarchy ; worse, by far, than an exemption of the pursuit 
of money or political power, since these can hardly be 
attained without some regard for at least the appearances of 
human welfare, whereas a curious devil might destroy the 
whole race in torment, acquiring knowledge all the time 
from his highly interesting experiment. There is more 
danger in one respectable scientist countenancing such a 
monstrous claim than in fifty assassins or dynamitards. The 
man who makes it is ethically imbecile; and whoever 

é 


Ixiv The Doctor’s Dilemma 


imagines that it is a scientific claim has not the faintest con- 
ception of what science means. The paths to knowledge 
are countless. One of these paths is a path through dark- 
ness, secrecy, and cruelty. When a man deliberately turns 
from all other paths and goes down that one, it is scientific 
to infer that what attracts him is not knowledge, since there 
are other paths to that, but cruelty. With so strong and 
scientific a case against him, itis childish for him to stand on 
his honor and reputation and high character and the credit 
of a noble profession and so forth: he must clear himself 
either by reason or by experiment, unless he boldly contends 
that evolution has retained a passion of cruelty in man just 
because it is indispensable to the fulness of his knowledge. 


Thou Art The Man 


I shall not be at all surprised if what I have written above 
has induced in sympathetic readers a transport of virtuous 
indignation at the expense of the medical profession. I 
shall not damp so creditable and salutary a sentiment; but 
I must point out that the guilt is shared by all of us. It is 
not in his capacity of healer and man of science that the 
doctor vivisects or defends vivisection, but in his entirely 
vulgar lay capacity. He is made of the same clay as the 
ignorant, shallow, credulous, half-miseducated, pecuniarily 
anxious people who call him in when they have tried in 
vain every bottle and every pill the advertizing druggist 
can persuade them to buy. The real remedy for vivisection 
is the remedy for all the mischief that the medical pro- 
fession and all the other professions are doing: namely, 
more knowledge. The juries which send the poor Peculiars 
to prison, and give vivisectionists heavy damages against 
humane persons who accuse them of cruelty; the editors and 
councillors and student-led mobs who are striving to make 
Vivisection one of the watchwords of our civilization, are 
not doctors: they are the British public, all so afraid to die 
that they will cling frantically to any idol which promises 





Preface on Doctors Ixv 


to cure all their diseases, and crucify anyone who tells 
them that they must not only die when their time comes, 
but die like gentlemen. In their paroxysms of cowardice 
and selfishness they force the doctors to humor their folly 
and ignorance. How complete and inconsiderate their 
ignorance is can only be realized by those who have some 
knowledge of vital statistics, and of the illusions which 
beset Public Health legislation. 


What the Public Wants and Will Not Get. 


The demands of this poor public are not reasonable, 
but they are quite simple. It dreads disease and desires to 
be protected against it. But it is poor and wants to be 
protected cheaply. Scientific measures are too hard to 
understand, too costly, too clearly tending towards a rise in 
the rates and more public interference with the insanitary, 
because insufficiently financed, private house. What the 
public wants, therefore, is a cheap magic charm to prevent, 
and a cheap pill or potion to cure all disease. It forces all 
such charms on the doctors. 


The Vaccination Craze. 


Thus it was really the public and nct the medical pro- 
fession that took up vaccination with irresistible faith, sweep- 
ing the invention out of Jenner’s hands and establishing it 
in a form which he himself repudiated. Jenner was not a 
man of science ; but he was not a fool; and when he found 
that people who had suffered from cowpox either by con- 
tagion in the milking shed or by vaccination, were not, as 
he had supposed, immune from smallpox, he ascribed the 
cases of immunity which had formerly misled him to a 
disease of the horse, which, perhaps because we do not drink 
its milk and eat its flesh, is kept at a greater distance in our 
imagination than our foster mother the cow. At all events, 
the public, which had been boundlessly credulous about the 


Ixvi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


cow, would not have the horse on any terms; and to this 
day the law which prescribes Jenncrian vaccination is carried 
out with an anti-Jennerian inoculation because the public 
would have it so in spite of Jenner. All the grossest lies 
and superstitions which have disgraced the vaccination craze 
were taught to the doctors by the public. It was not the 
doctors who first began to declare that all our old men 
remember the time when almost every face they saw in 
the street was horribly pitted with smallpox, and that 
all this disfigurement has vanished since the introduction of 
vaccination. Jenuer himself alluded to this imaginary 
phenomenon before the introduction of vaccination, and 
attributed it to the older practice of smallpox inoculation, 
by which Voltaire, Catherine IT. and Lady Mary Wortley 
Montagu so confidently expected to see the disease made 
harmless. It was not Jenner who set people declaring that 
smallpox, if not abolished by vaccination, had at least been 
made much milder: on the contrary, he recorded a pre- 
vaccination epidemic in which nene of the persons attacked 
went to bed or considered themselves as seriously ill. 
Neither Jenner, nor any other doctor ever, as far as I know, 
inculcated the popular notion that everybody got smallpox 
as a matter of course before vaccination was invented. 
That doctors get infected with these delusions, and are in 
their unprofessional capacity as members of the public 
subject to them like other men, is true; but if we had to 
decide whether vaccination was first forced on the public 
by the doctors or on the doctors by the public, we should 
have to decide against the public. 


Statistical Illusions. 


Public ignorance of the laws of evidence and of statistics 
can hardly be exaggerated. There may be a doctor here 
and there who in dealing with the statistics of disease has 
taken at least the first step towards sanity by grasping the 
fact that as an attack of even the commonest disease is 


Preface on Doctors )xvil 


an exceptional event, apparently overwhelming statistical 
evidence in favor of any prophylactic can be produced 
by persuading the public that everybody caught the 
disease formerly, Thus if a disease is one which normally 
attacks fifteen per cent of the population, and if the effect of a 
prophylactic is actually to increase the proportion to twenty 
per cent, the publication of this figure of twenty per cent 
will convince the public that the prophylactic has reduced 
the percentage by eighty per cent instead of increasing it 
by five, because the public, left to itself and to the old 
gentlemen who are always ready to remember, on every 
possible subject, that things used to be much worse than 
they are now (such old gentlemen greatly outnumber the 
laudatores tempori acti), will assume that the former per- 
centage was about 100. The vogue of the Pasteur treat- 
ment of hydrophobia, for instance, was due to the assumption 
by the public that every person bitten by a rabid dog 
necessarily got hydrophobia. I myself heard hydrophobia 
discussed in my youth by doctors in Dublin before a 
Pasteur Institute existed, the subject having been brought 
forward there by the scepticism of an eminent surgeon as 
“to whether hydrophobia is really a specific disease or only 
ordinary tetanus induced (as tetanus was then supposed to 
be induced) by a lacerated wound. There were no statistics 
available asto the proportion of dog bites that endedinhydro- 
phobia; but nobody ever guessed that the cases could be 
more than two or three per cent of the bites. On me, there- 
fore, the results published by the Pasteur Institute produced 
no such effect as they did on the ordinary man who thinks 
that the bite of a mad dog means certain hydrophobia. It. 
seemed to me that the proportion of deaths among the cases 
treated at the Institute was rather higher, if anything, than 
might have been expected had there been no Institute in 
existence. But to the public every Pasteur patient who did 
not die was miraculously saved from an agonizing death by 
the beneficent white magic of that most trusty of all wizards, 
the man of science. 


Ixvill The Doctor’s Dilemma 


Even trained statisticians often fai] to appreciate the 
extent to which statistics are vitiated by the unrecorded 
assum ptionsof theirinterpreters. Theirattentionis toomuch 
occupied with the cruder tricks of those who make a 
corrupt use of statistics for advertizing purposes. There is, 
for example, the percentage dodge. In some hamlet, barely 
large enough to havea name, two people are attacked during 
a smallpox epidemic. One dies: the other recovers. One 
has vaccination marks: the other has none. Immediately 
either the vaccinists or the anti-vaccinists publish the 
triumphant news that at such and such a place not a 
single vaccinated person died of smallpox whilst 100 per 
cent of the unvaccinated perished miserably ; or, as the 
case may be, that 100 per cent of the unvaccinated 
recovered whilst the vaccinated succumbed to the last man. 
Or, to take another common instance, comparisons which 
are really comparisons between two social classes with 
different standards of nutrition and education are palmed 
off as comparisons between the results of a certain medical 
treatment and its neglect. ‘Thus it is easy to prove that the 
wearing of tall hats and the carrying of umbrellas enlarges 
the chest, prolongs life, and confers comparative immunity 
from disease; for the statistics shew that the classes which 
use these articles are bigger, healthier, and live longer than 
the class which never dreams of possessing such things. It 
does not take much perspicacity to see that what really 
makes this difference is not the tall hat and the umbrella, 
but the wealth and nourishment of which they are evidence, 
and that a gold watch or membership of a club in Pall Mall 
might be proved in the same way to have the like sovereign 
virtues. A university degree, a daily bath, the owning of 
thirty pairs of trousers, a knowledge of Wagner’s music, 
a pew in church, anything, in short, that implies more 
means and better nurture than the mass of laborers enjoy, 
can be statistically palmed off as a magic-spell conferring 
all sorts of privileges. 

In the case of a prophylactic enforced by law, this illusion 


Preface on Doctors lxix 


is intensified grotesquely, because only vagrants can evade it. 
Now vagrants have little power of resisting any disease : 
their death-rate and their case-mortality rate is always high 
relatively to that of respectable folk. Nothing is easier, 
therefore, than to prove that compliance with any public 
regulation produces the most gratifying results. It would 
be equally easy even if the regulation actually raised the 
death-rate, provided it did not raise it sufficiently to make 
the average householder, who cannot evade regulations, die 
as early as the average vagrant who can. 


The Surprises of Attention and Neglect. 


There is another statistical illusion which is independent 
of class differences. A common complaint of houseowners 
is that the Public Health Authorities frequently compel 
them to instal costly sanitary appliances which are con- 
demned a few years later as dangerous to health, and for- 
bidden under penalties. Yet these discarded mistakes are 
always made in the first instance on the strength of a 

_demonstration that their introduction has reduced the death- 
rate. The explanation is simple. Suppose a law were made 
that every child in the nation should be compelled to drink 
a pint of brandy per month, but that the brandy must be 
administered only when the child was in good health, with 
its digestion and so forth working normally, and its teeth 
either naturally or artificially sound. Probably the result 
would be an immediate and startling reduction in child 
mortality, leading to further legislation increasing the 
quantity of brandy toa gallon. Not until the brandy craze 
had been carried to a point at which the direct harm done 
by it would outweigh the incidental good, would an anti- 
brandy party be listened to. That incidental good would 
be the substitution of attention to the general health of 
children for the neglect which is now the rule so long as 
the child is not actually too sick to run about and play as 
usual, Even if this attention were confined to the children’s 


Ixx The Doctor’s Dilemma 


teeth, there would be an improvement which it would take 
a good deal of brandy to cancel. 

This imaginary case explains the actual case of the sani- 
tary appliances which our local sanitary authorities prescribe 
today and condemn tomorrow. No sanitary contrivance 
which the mind of even the very worst plumber can 
devize could be as disastrous as that total neglect for long 
periods which gets avenged by pestilences that sweep 
through whole continents, like the black death and the 
cholera, If it were proposed at this time of day to dis- 
charge all the sewage of London crude and untreated 
into the Thames, instead of carrying it, after elaborate 
treatment, far out into the North Sea, there would be a 
shriek of horror from all our experts. Yet if Cromwell had 
done that instead of doing nothing, there would probably 
have been no Great Plague of London. When the Local 
Health Authority forces every householder to have his sani- 
tary arrangements thoughtaboutand attendedtoby somebody 
whose special business it is to attend to such things, then it 
matters not how erroneous or even directly mischievous 
may be the specific measures taken: the net result at first 
is sure to be an improvement. Not until attention has been 
effectually substituted for neglect as the general rule, will 
the statistics begin to shew the merits of the particular 
methods of attention adopted. And as we are far from 
having arrived at this stage, being as to health legislation 
only at the beginning of things, we have practically no 
evidence yet as to the value of methods. Simple and obvious 
as this is, nobody seems as yet to discount the effect of 
substituting attention for neglect in drawing conclusions 
from health statistics. Everything is put to the credit of 
the particular method employed, although it may quite 
possibly be raising the death-rate by five per thousand whilst 
the attention incidental to it is reducing the death-rate 
fifteen per thousand. The net gain of ten per thousand is 
credited to the method, and made the excuse for enforcing 
more of it. 


— 





Preface on Doctors Ixx1 


Stealing Credit from Civilization. 


There is yet another way in which specifics which have 
no merits at all, either direct or incidental, may be brought 
into high repute by statistics. Fora century past civilization 
has been cleaning away the conditions which favor bacterial 
fevers, Typhus, once rife, has vanished: plague and cholera 
have been stopped at our frontiers by a sanitary blockade. 
We still have epidemics of smallpox and typhoid ; and 
diphtheria and scarlet fever are endemic in the slums. 
Measles, which in my childhood was not regarded as a 
dangerous disease, has now become so mortal that notices 
are posted publicly urging parents to take it seriously. But 
even in these cases the contrast between the death and 
recovery rates in the rich districts and in the poor ones has 
led to the general conviction among experts that bacterial 
diseases are preventible; and they already are to a large 
extent prevented. The dangers of infection and the way 
to avoid it are better understood than they used to be. It 
is barely twenty years since people exposed themselves reck- 
lessly to the infection of consumption and pneumonia in the 
belief that these diseases were not ‘‘ catching.” Nowadays 
the troubles of consumptive patients are greatly increased by 
the growing disposition to treat them as lepers. No doubt 
there is a good deal of ignorant exaggeration and cowardly 
refusal to face a human and necessary share of the risk. 
That has always been the case. We now know that the 
medieval horror of leprosy was out of all proportion to the 
danger of infection, and was accompanied by apparent 
blindness to the infectiousness of smallpox, which has since 
been worked up by our disease terrorists into the position 
formerly held by leprosy. But the scare of infection, though 
it sets even doctors talking as if the only really scientific 
thing to do with a fever patient is to throw him into 
the nearest ditch and pump carbolic acid on him from a 
safe distance until he is ready to be cremated on the spot, 


Ixxil The Doctor’s Dilemma 


has led to much greater care and cleanliness. And the net 
result has been a series of victories over disease. 

Now let us suppose that in the early nineteenth century 
somebody had come forward with a theory that typhus 
fever always begins in the top joint of the little finger; and 
that if this joint be amputated immediately after birth, 
typhus fever will disappear. Had such a suggestion been 
adopted, the theory would have been triumphantly con- 
firmed; for as a matter of fact, typhus fever Aas disappeared. 
On the other hand cancer and madness have increased 
(statistically) to an appalling extent. The opponents of the 
little finger theory would therefore be pretty sure to allege 
that the amputations were spreading cancer and lunacy. 
The vaccination controversy is full of such contentions. 
So is the controversy as co the docking of horses’ tails and 
the cropping of dogs’ ears. So is the less widely known 
controversy as to circumcision and the declaring certain 
kinds of flesh unclean by the Jews. T'o advertize any remedy 
or operation, you have only to pick out all the most re- 
assuring advances made by civilization, and boldly present 
the two in the relation of cause and effect: the public will 
swallow the fallacy without a wry face. It has no idea of 
the need for what is called a control experiment. In 
Shakespear’s time and for long after it, mummy was a 
favorite medicament. You took a pinch of the dust of a 
dead Egyptian in a pint of the hottest water you could 
bear to drink ; and it did you a great deal of good. This, 
you thought, proved what a sovereign healer mummy was. 
But if you had tried the control experiment of taking the 
hot water without the mummy, you might have found 
the effect exactly the same, and that any hot drink would 
have done as well. 


Biometrika. 


Another difficulty about statistics is the technical diffi- 
culty of calculation. Before you can even make a mistake 





Preface on Doctors Ixxill 


in drawing your conclusion from the correlations established 
by your statistics you must ascertain the correlations. When 
I turn over the pages of Biometrika, a quarterly journal in 
which is recorded the work done in the field of biological 
statistics by Professor Karl Pearson and his colleagues, I 
am out of my depth at the first line, because mathematics 
are to me only a concept: I never used a logarithm in my 
life, and could not undertake to extract the square root of 
four without misgiving. I am therefore unable to deny that 
the statistical ascertainment of the correlations between one 
thing and another must be a very complicated and difficult 
technical business, not to be tackled successfully except by 
high mathematicians; and I cannot resist Professor Karl 
Pearson’s immense contempt for, and indignant sense of 
grave social danger in, the unskilled guesses of the ordinary 
sociologist. 

Now the man in the street knows nothing of Biometrika: 
all he knows is that “‘you can prove anything by figures,” 
though he forgets this the moment figures are used to prove 
anything he wants to believe. If he did take in Biometrika 
_he would probably become abjectly credulous as to all the 
conclusiens drawn in it from the correlations so learnedly 
worked out ; though the mathematician whose correlations 
would fill a Newton with admiration, may, in collecting 
and accepting data and drawing conclusions from them, fall 
into quite crude errors by just such popular oversights as I 
have been describing. 


Patient-made Therapeutics. 


To all these blunders and ignorances doctors are no less 
subject than the rest of us. They are not trained in the use 
of evidence, nor in biometrics, nor in the psychology of 
human credulity, nor in the incidence of economic pres- 
sure. Further, they must believe, on the whole, what their 
patients believe, just as they must wear the sort of hat 
their patients wear. The doctor may lay down the law 


Ixxiv The Doctor’s Dilemma 


despotically enough to the patient at points where the 
patient’s mind is simply blank ; but when the patient has 
a prejudice the doctor must either keep it in countenance 
or lose his patient. If people are persuaded that night air 
is dangercus to health and that fresh air makes them catch 
cold, it will not be possible for a doctor to make his living 
in private practice if he prescribes ventilation. We have 
to go back no further than the days of The Pickwick Papers 
to find ourselves in a world where people slept in four-post 
beds with curtains drawn closely round to exclude as much 
air as possible. Had Mr. Pickwick’s doctor told him that 
he would be much healthier if he slept on a camp bed by 
an open window, Mr. Pickwick would have regarded him 
as a crank and called in another doctor. Had he gone on 
to forbid Mr. Pickwick to drink brandy and water when- 
ever he felt chilly, and assured him that if he were deprived 
of meat or salt for a whole year, he would not only not die, 
but would be none the worse, Mr. Pickwick would have 
fled from his presence as from that of a dangerous madman. 
And in these matters the doctor cannot cheat his patient. 
If he has no faith in drugs or vaccination, and the patient 
has, ke can cheat him with colored water and pass his lancet 
through the flame of a spirit lamp before scratching his 
arm. But he cannot make him change his daily habits with- 
out knowing it. 


The Reforms also come from the Laity. 


In the main, then, the doctor learns that if he gets 
ahead of the superstitions of his patients he is a ruined man; 
and the result is that he instinctively takes care not to get 
ahead of them. That is why all the changes come from 
the laity. It was not until an agitation had been conducted 
for many years by laymen, including quacks and faddists of 
all kinds, that the public was sufficiently impressed to 
make it possible for the doctors to open their minds and 
their mouths on the subject of fresh air, cold water, temper- 


Preface on Doctors lxxv 


ance, and the rest of the new fashions in hygiene. At 
present the tables have been turned on many old prejudices. 
Plenty of our most popular elderly doctors believe that cold 
tubs in the morning are unnatural, exhausting, and rheu- 
matic; that fresh air is a fad, and that everybody is the 
better for a glass or two of port wine every day; but they 
no longer dare say as much until they know exactly where 
they are; for many very desirable patients in country houses 
have lately been persuaded that their first duty is to get up 
at six in the morning and begin the day by taking a walk 
barefoot through the dewy grass. He who shews the least 
scepticism as to this practice is at once suspected of being 
“an old-fashioned doctor,’ and dismissed to make room 
for a younger man. 

In short, private medical practice is governed not by 
science but by supply and demand ; and however scientific 
a treatment may be, it cannot hold its place in the market 
if there is no demand for it ; nor can the grossest quackery 
be kept off the market if there is a demand for it. 


- Fashions and Epidemics. 


A demand, however, can be inculcated. This is 
thoroughly understood by fashionable tradesmen, who find 
no difficulty in persuading their customers to renew articles 
that are not worn out and to buy things they do not want. 
By making doctors tradesmen, we compel them to learn the 
tricks of trade; consequently we find that the fashions of the 
year include treatments, operations, and particular drugs, as 
well as hats, sleeves, ballads, and games. Tonsils, vermiform 
appendices, uvulas, even ovaries are sacrificed because it is 
the fashion to get them cut out, and because the operations 
are highly profitable. The psychology of fashion becomes 
a pathology ; for the cases have every air of being genuine: 
fashions, after all, are only induced epidemics, proving that 
epidemics can be induced by tradesmen, and therefore by 
doctors. 


Ixxvi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


The Doctor’s Virtues. 


It will be admitted that this is a pretty bad state of 
things. And the melodramatic instinct of the public, 
always demanding that every wrong shall have, not its 
remedy, but its villain to be hissed, will blame, not its own 
apathy, superstition, and ignorance, but the depravity of 
the doctors. Nothing could be more unjust or mischievous. 
Doctors, if no better than other men, are certainly no worse. 
[ was reproached during the performances of The Doctor’s 
Dilemma at the Court Theatre in 1907 because I made 
the artist a rascal, the journalist an illiterate incapable, and 
all the doctors “angels.” But I did not go beyond the 
warrant of my own experience. It has been my luck to 
have doctors among my friends for nearly forty years past 
(all perfectly aware of my freedom from the usual credulity 
as to the miraculous powers and knowledge attributed to 
them) ; and though I know that there are medical black- 
guards as well as military, legal, and clerical blackguards 
(one soon finds that out when one is privileged to hear 
doctors talking shop among themselves), the fact that I was 
no more at a loss for private medical advice and attendance 
when I had not a penny in my pocket than I was later on 
when I could afford fees on the highest scale, has made it 
impossible for me to share that hostility to the doctor as a 
man which exists and is growing as an inevitable result of the 
present condition of medical practice. Not that the interest 
in disease and aberrations which turns some men and women 
to medicine and surgery is not sometimes as morbid as the 
interest in misery and vice which turns some others to phil- 
anthropy and “rescue work.” But the true doctor is in- 
spired by a hatred of ill-health, and a divine impatience 
of any waste of vital forces. Unless a man is led to 
medicine or surgery through a very exceptioaal technical 
aptitude, or because doctoring is a family tradition, or 
because he regards it unintelligently as a lucrative and 
gentlemanly profession, his motives in choosing the career 


Preface on Doctors Ixxvil 


of a healer are clearly generous. However actual practice 
may disillusion and corrupt him, his selection in the first 
instance is not a selection of a base character. 


The Doctor’s Hardships. 


A review of the counts in the indictment I have 
brought against private medical practice will shew that they - 
arise out of the doctor’s position as a competitive private 
tradesman: that is, out of his poverty and dependerce. 
And it should be borne in mind that doctors are expected 
to treat other people specially well whilst themselves sub- 
mitting to specially inconsiderate treatment. The butcher 
and baker are not expected to feed the hungry unless the 
hungry can pay; but a doctor who allows a fellow-creature 
to suffer or perish without aid is regarded as a monster. 
Even if we must dismiss hospital service as really venal, the 
fact remains that most doctors do a good deal of gratuitous 
work in private practice all through their careers. And in 
his paid work the doctor is on a different footing to the 
tradesman. Although the articles he sells, advice and treat- 
ment, are the same for all classes, his fees have to be 
graduated like the income tax. The successful fashionable 
doctor may weed his poorer patients out from time to time, 
and finally use the College of Physicians to place it out of 
his own power to accept low fees ; but the ordinary general 
practitioner never makes out his bills without considering 
the taxable capacity of his patients. 

Then there is the disregard of his own health and comfort 
which results from the fact that he is, by the nature of his 
work, an emergency man. We are polite and considerate 
to the doctor when there is nothing the matter, and we 
meet him as a friend or entertain him as a guest; but 
when the baby is suffering from croup, or its mother has a 
temperature of 104°, or its grandfather has broken his leg, 
nobody thinks of the dector except as a healer and saviour. 
He may be hungry, weary, sleepy, run down by several 


Ixxviii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


successive nights disturbed by that instrument of torture, 
the night bell ; but who ever thinks of this in the face of 
sudden sickness or accident? We think no more of the 
condition of a doctor attending a case than of the condition 
of a fireman ata fire. In other occupations night-work is 
specially recognized and provided for. The worker sleeps 
all day; has his breakfast in the evening; his lunch or 
dinner at midnight ; his dinner or supper before going to 
bed in the morning ; and he changes to day-work if he 
cannot stand night-work. Buta doctor is expected to work 
day and night. In practices which consist largely of work- 
men’s clubs, and in which the patients are therefore taken 
on wholesale terms and very numerous, the unfortunate 
assistant, or the principal if he has no assistant, often does 
not undress, knowing that he will be called up before he 
has snatched an hour’s sleep. To the strain of such inhuman 
conditions must be added the constant risk of infection. 
One wonders why the impatient doctors do not become 
savage and unmanageable, and the patient ones imbecile. 
Perhaps they do, to some extent. And the pay is wretched, 
and so uncertain that refusal to attend without payment in 
advance becomes often a necessary measure of self-defence, 
whilst the County Court has long ago put an end to the 
tradition that the doctor’s fee is an honorarium. Even the 
most eminent physicians, as such biographies as those of 
Paget shew, are sometimes miserably, inhumanly poor until 
they are past their prime. 

In short, the doctor needs our help for the moment much 
more than we often need his. The ridicule of Moliére, 
the death of a well-informed and clever writer like the fate 
Harold Frederic in the hands of Christian Scientists (a sort 
of sealing with his blood of the contemptuous disbelief in 
and dislike of doctors he had bitterly expressed in his books), 
the scathing and quite justifiable exposure of medical prac- 
tice in the novel by Mr. Maarten Maartens entitled The 
New Religion: all these trouble the doctor very little, 
and are in any case well set off by the popularity of Sir 


Preface on Doctors Ixxix 


Luke Fildes’ famous picture, and by the verdicts in which 
juries from time to time express their conviction that the 
doctor can do no wrong. The real woes of the doctor are 
the shabby coat, the wolf at the door, the tyranny of 
ignorant patients, the work-day of 24 hours, and the useless- 
ness of honestly prescribing what most of the patients really 
need : that is, not medicine, but money. 


The Public Doctor. 


What then is to he done? 

Fortunately we have not to begin absolutely from the 
beginning: we already have, in the Medical Officer of 
Health, a sort of doctor who is free from the worst hard- 
ships, and consequently from the worst vices, of the private 
practitioner. His position depends, not on the number of 
people who are ill, and whom he can keep ill, but on the 
number of people who are well. He is judged, as all doctors 
and treatments should be judged, by the vital statistics of 
his district. When the death-rate goes up his credit goes 
down, As every increase in his salary depends on the issue 
of a public debate as to the health of the constituency 
under his charge, he has every inducement to strive 
towards the ideal of a clean bill of health. He has a safe, 
dignified, responsible, independent position based wholly 
on the public health; whereas the private practitioner has 
a precarious, shabby-genteel, irresponsible, servile position, 
based wholly on the prevalence of illness. 

It is true, there are grave scandals in the public medical 
service. The public doctor may bealso a private practitioner 
eking out his earnings by giving a little time to public work 
for amean payment. There are cases in which the position 
is one which no successful practitioner will accept, and 
where, therefore, incapables or drunkards get automatically 
selected for the post, faute de mieux; but even in these 
cases the doctor is less disastrous in his public capacity 
than in his private one: besides, the conditions which 


Jf 


Ixxx The Doctor’s Dilemma 


produce these bad cases are doomed, as the evil is now re- 
cognized and understood. A popular but unstable remedy 
is to enable local authorities, when they are too small to 
require the undivided time of such men as the Medical 
Officers of our great municipalities, to combine for public 
health purposes so that each may share the services of a 
highly paid official of the best class; but the right remedy 
is a larger area as the sanitary unit. 


Medical Organization. 


Another advantage of public medical work is that it 
admits of organization, and consequently of the distribution 
of the work in such a manner as to avoid wasting the time 
of highly qualified experts on trivial jobs. The individual- 
ism of private practice leads to an appalling waste of time 
on trifles. Men whose dexterity as operators or almost 
divinatory skill in diagnosis are constantly needed for difli- 
cult cases, are poulticing whitlows, vaccinating, changing 
unimportant dressings, prescribing ether drams for ladies 
with timid leanings towards dipsomania, and generally wast- 
ing their time in the pursuit of private fees. In no other 
profession is the practitioner expected to do all the work 
involved in it from the first day of his professional career 


to the last as the doctor is. The judge passes sentence of . 


death ; but he is not expected to hang the criminal with 
his own hands, as he would be if the legal profession were 
as unorganized as the medical. The bishop is not expected 
to blow the organ or wash the baby he baptizes. The 
general is not asked to plan a campaign or conduct a battle 
at half-past twelve and to play the drum at half-past two. 
Even if they were, things would still not be as bad as in 
the medical profession ; for in it not only is the first-class 
man set to do third-class work, but, what is much more 


terrifying, the third-class man is expected to do first-class” 


work. Every general practitioner is supposed to be capable 
of the whole range of medical and surgical work at a 





Preface on Doctors Ixxxi 


moment’s notice ; and the country doctor, who has not a 
specialist nor a crack consultant at the end of his telephone, 
often has to tackle without hesitation cases which no sane 
practitioner in a town would take in hand without assist- 
ance. No doubt this develops the resourcefulness of the 
country doctor, and makes him a more capable man than 
his suburban colleague ; but it cannot develop the second- 
class man into a first-class one. If the practice of law not 
only led to a judge having to hang, but the hangman to 
judge, or if in the army matters were so arranged that it 
would be possible for the drummer boy to be in command 
at Waterloo whilst the Duke of Wellington was playing the 
drum in Brussels, we should not be consoled by the reflec- 
tion that our hangmen were thereby made a little more 
judicial-minded, and our drummers more responsible, than 
in foreign countries where the legal and military professions 
recognized the advantages of division of labor. 

Under such conditions no statistics as to the graduation 
of professional ability among doctors are available. Assum- 
ing that doctors are normal men and not magicians (and it 
is unfortunately very hard to persuade people to admit so 
much and thereby destroy the romance of doctoring) we 
may guess that the medical profession, like the other pro- 
fessions, consists of a small percentage of highly gifted 
persons at one end, and a small percentage of altcgether dis- 
astrous duffers at the other. Between these extremes comes 
the main body of doctors (also, of course, with a weak and 
a strong end) who can be trusted to work under regulations 
with more or less aid from above according to the gravity of 
the case. Or, to put it in terms of the cases, there are cases 
that present no difficulties, and can be dealt with by a 
nurse or student at one end of the scale, and cases that 
require watching and handling by the very highest existing 
skill at the other; whilst between come the great mass of 
cases which need visits from the doctor of ordinary ability 
and from the chiefs of the profession in the proportion of, 
say, seven te none, seven to one, three to one, one to one, 


Ixxxii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


or, for a day or two, none to one, Sucha service is organized 
at present only in hospitals ; though in large towns the prac- 
tice of calling in the consultant acts, to some extent, as 
a substitute for it. But in the latter case it is quite un- 
‘regulated except by professional etiquet, which, as we 
have seen, has for its object, not the health of the patient 
or of the community at large, but the protection of the 
doctor’s livelihood and the concealment of his errors, And 
as the consultant is an expensive luxury, he is a last re- 
source rather than, as he should be, a matter of course in 
all cases where the general practitioner is not equal to the 
occasion: a predicament in which a very capable man may 
find himself at any time through the cropping up of a case 
of which he has had ne clinical experience. 


The Social Solution of the Medical 
Problem. 


The sccial solution of the medical problem, then, depends 
on that large, slowly advancing, pettishly resisted integration 
of society called generally Socialism. Until the medicai pro- 
fession becomes a body of men trained and paid by the 
country to keep the country in health it will remain what 
it isat present: a conspiracy to exploit popular credulity and 
human suffering. Already our M.O.H.s (Medical Officers of 
Health) are in the new position: what is lacking is apprecia- 
tion of the change, not only by the public but by the private 
doctors. For, as we have seen, when one of the first-rate 
posts becomes vacant in one of the great cities, and all the 
leading M.O.H.s compete for it, they must appeal to the 
good health of the cities of which they have been in charge, 
and not to the size of the incomes the loca! private doctors 
are making out of the ill-health of their patients. If acom- 
petitor can prove that he has utterly ruined every sort of 
medical private practice in a large city except obstetric 
practice and the surgery of accidents, his claims are irre- 
sistible; and this is the ideal at which every M.O.H. should 


Preface on Doctors Ixxxili 


aim. But the profession at large should none the less 
Welcome him and set its house in order for the social 
change which will finally be its own salvation. For the 
M.O.H. as we know him is only the beginning of that 
army of Public Hygiene which will presently take the 
place in general interest and honor now occupied by our 
military and naval forces. It is silly that an Englishman 
should be more afraid of a German soldier than of a British 
disease germ, and should clamor for more barracks in the 
same newspapers that protest against more school clinics, 
and cry out that if the State fights disease for us it makes 
us paupers, though they never say that if the State fights 
the Germans for us it makes us cowards. Fortunately, when 
a habit of thought is silly it only needs steady treatment by 
ridicule from sensible and witty people to be put out of 
countenance and perish. Every year sees an increase in the 
number of persons employed in the Public Health Service, 
who would formerly have been mere adventurers in the 
Private Illness Service. To put it another way, a host of 
men and women who have now a strong incentive to be 
mischievous and even murderous rogues will have a much 
stronger, because a much honester, incentive to be not only 
good citizens but active benefactors to the community. And 
they will have no anxicty whatever about their incomes, 


The Future of Private Practice. 


It must not be hastily concluded that this involves the 
extinction of the private practitioner. What it will really 
mean for him is release from his present degrading and 
scientifically corrupting slavery to his patients. As I have 
already shewn, the doctor who has to live by pleasing his 
patients in competition with everybody who has walked the 
hospitals, scraped through tie examinations, and bought a 
brass plate, soon finds himself prescribing water to tee- 
totallers and brandy or champagne jelly to drunkards; beef- 
steaks and stout in one house, and “‘uric acid free”’ vegetarian 


Ixxxiv The Doctor’s Dilemma 


diet over the way; shut windows, big fires, and heavy over- 
coats to old Colonels, and open air and as much nakedness 
as is compatible with decency to young faddists, never once 
daring to say either “I dont know,” or “I dont agree.” For 
the strength of the doctor’s, as of every other man’s position 
when the evolution of social organization at last reaches his 
profession, will be that he will always have open to him 
the alternative of public employment when the private em- 
ployer becomes too tyrannous. And let no one suppose that 
tne words doctor and patient can disguise from the parties 
the fact that they are employer and employee. No doubt 
doctors who are in great demand can be as high-handed and 
independent as employees are in all classes when a dearth 
in their labor market makes them indispensable; but the 
average doctor is not in this position: he is struggling for 
life in an overcrowded profession, and knows well that ‘fa 
good bedside manner” will carry him to solvency through 
a morass of illness, whilst the least attempt at plain dealing 
with people who are eating too much, or drinking too much, 
or frowsting too much (to go no further in the list of in- 
temperances that make up so much of family life) would 
soon land him in the Bankruptcy Court. 

Private practice, thus protected, would itself protect indi- 
viduals, as far as such protection is possible, against the 
errors and superstitions of State medicine, which are at 
worst no worse than the errors and superstitions of private 
practice, being, indeed, all derived from it. Such mon- 
strosities as vaccination are, as we have seen, founded, not 
on science, but on half-crowns. If the Vaccination Acts, 
instead of being wholly repealed as they are already half 
repealed, were strengthened by compelling every parent to 
have his child vaccinated by a public officer whose salary 
was completely independent of the number of vaccinations 
performed by him, and for whom there was plenty of alterna- 
tive public health work waiting, vaccination would be dead 
in two years, as the vaccinator would not only not gain by 
it, but would lose credit through the depressing effects on 


Preface on Doctors lxxxv 


the vital statistics of his district of the illness and deaths it 
causes, whilst it would take from him all the credit of that 
freedom from smallpox which is the result of good sanitary 
administration and vigilant prevention of infection. Such 
absurd panic scandals as that of the last London epidemic, 
where a fee of half-a-crown per re-vaccination produced 
raids on houses during the absence of parents, and the forcible 
seizure and re-vaccination of children left to answer the 
door, can be prevented simply by abolishing the half- 
crown and all] similar follies, paying, not for this or that 
ceremony of witchcraft, but for immunity from disease, and 
paying, too, in a rational way. The officer with a fixed 
salary saves himself trouble by doing his business with the 
least possible interference with the private citizen. The 
man paid by the job loses money by not forcing his job on 
the public as often as possible without reference to its 
results. 


The Technical Problem. 


As to any technical medical problem specially involved, 
there issnone. If there were, I should not be competent to 
deal with it, as I am not a technical expert in medicine: 
I deal with the subject as an economist, a politician, and a 
citizen exercising my common sense. Everything that I 
have said applies equally to all the medical techniques, and 
will hold good whether public hygiene be based on the 
poetic fancies of Christian Science, the tribal superstitions 
of the druggist and the vivisector, or the best we can make 
of our real knowledge. But I may remind those who con- 
fusedly imagine that the medical problem is also the scientific 
problem, that all problems are finally scientific problems. 
The notion that therapeutics or hygiene or surgery is any 
more or less scientific than making or cleaning boots is 
entertained only by people to whom a man of science is 
still a magician who can cure diseases, transmute metals, 
and enable us to live for ever. It may still be necessary for 
some time to come to practise on popular credulity, popular 


ixxxvi The Doctor’s Dilemma 


love and dread of the marvellous, and popular idolatry, to 
induce the poor to comply with the sanitary regulations 
they are too ignorant to understand As I have elsewhere 
confessed, I have myself been responsible for ridiculous in- 
cantations with burning sulphur, experimentally proved to 
be quite useless, because poor people are convinced, by the 
mystical air of the burning and the horrible smell, that it 
exorcises the demons of smallpox and scarlet fever and 
makes it safe for them to return to their houses. T'o assure 
them that the real secret is sunshine and soap is only to con- 
vince them that you do not care whether they live or die, 
and wish to save money at their expense. So you perform 
the incantation; and back they go to their houses, satisfied. 
A religious ceremony—a poetic blessing of the threshold, 
for instance—would be much better; but unfortunately 
our religion is weak on the sanitary side. One of the worst 
misfortunes of Christendom was that reaction against the 
voluptuous bathing of the imperial Romans which made 
dirty habits a part of Christian piety, and in some unlucky 
places (the Sandwich Islands, for example) made the intro- 
duction of Christianity also the introduction of disease, 
because the formulators of the superseded native religion, 
like Mahomet, had been enlightened enough to introduce 
as religious duties such sanitary measures as ablution and 
the most careful and reverent treatment of everything cast 
off by the human body, even to nail clippings and hairs; 
and our missionaries thoughtlessly discredited this godly 
doctrine without supplying its place, which was promptly 
taken by laziness and neglect. If the priests of Ireland could 
only be persuaded to teach their flocks that it is a deadly 
insult to the Blessed Virgin to place her image in a cottage 
that is not kept up to that high standard of Sunday cleanliness 
to which all her worshippers must believe she is accustomed, 
and to represent her as being especially particular about 
stables because her son was born in one, they might do 
more in one year than all the Sanitary Inspectors in Ireland 
could do in twenty; and they could hardly doubt that Our 


Preface on Doctors Ixxxvil 


Lady would be delighted. Perhaps they do nowadays; for 
Ireland is certainly a transfigured country since my youth 
as far as clean faces and pinafores can transfigure it. In 
England, where so many of the inhabitants are too gross to 
believe in poetic faiths, too respectable to tolerate the notion 
that the stable at Bethany was a comunon peasant farmer’s 
stable instead of a first-rate racing one, and too savage to 
believe that anything can really cast out the devil of 
disease unless it be some terrifying hoodoo of tortures and 
stinks, the M.O.H. will no doubt for a long time to come 
have to preach to fools according to their folly, promising 
miracles, and threatening hideous personal consequences of 
neglect of by-laws and the like; therefore it will be important 
that every M.O.H. shallhave, with his (or her) other qualifica- 
tions, a sense of humor, lest he (or she) should come at last 
to believe all the nonsense that must needs be talked. But 
he must, in his capacity of an expert advising the authorities, 
keep the government itself free of superstition. If Italian 
peasants are so ignorant that the Church can get no hold 
of them except by miracles, why, miracles there must be. 
The blood of St. Januarius must liquefy whether the Saint is 
in the humor or not. To trick a heathen into being a dutiful 
Christian is no worse than to trick a whitewasher into trust- 
ing himself in a room where a smallpox patient has lain, 
by pretending to exorcise the disease with burning sulphur. 
But woe to the Church if in deceiving the peasant it also 
deceives itself; for then the Church is lost, and the peasant 
too, unless he revolt against it. Unless the Church works 
the pretended miracle painfully against the grain, and is 
continually urged by its dislike of the imposture to strive 
to make the peasant susceptible to the true reasons for be- 
having well, the Church will become an instrument of his 
corruption and an exploiter of his ignorance, and will find 
itself launched upon that persecution of scientific truth of 
which all priesthoods are accused—and none with more 
justice than the scientific priesthood. 

And here we come to the danger that terrifies so many 


Ixxxviii The Doctor’s Dilemma 


of us: the danger of having a hygienic orthodoxy imposed 
on us. But we must face that: in such crowded and poverty 
ridden civilizations as ours any orthodoxy is better than 
laisser-faire. If our population ever comes to consist ex- 
clusively of well-to-do, highly cultivated, and thoroughly 
instructed free persons in a position to take care of them- 
selves, no doubt they will make short work of a good deal 
of official regulation that is now of life-and-death necessity 
to us; but under existing circumstances, J repeat, almost 
any sort of attention that democracy will stand is 
better than neglect. Attention and activity lead to mis- 
takes as well as to successes; but a life spent in making 
mistakes is not only more honorable but more useful than 
a life spent doing nothing. The one lesson that comes out 
of all our theorizing and experimenting is that there is only 
one reall, scientific progressive method; and that is the 
method of trial and error. If you come to that, what is 
laisser-faire but an orthodoxy? the most tyrannous and 
disastrous of all the orthodoxies, since it forbids you even 
to learn. 


The Latest Theories. 


Medical theories are so much a matter of fashion, and . 
the most fertile of them are modified so rapidly by medical 
practice and biological research, which are international 
activities, that the play which furnishes the pretext for this 
preface is alrealy slightly outmoded, though I believe it 
may be taken as a faithful record for the year (1906) in 
which it was begun. I must not expose any professional 
man to ruin by connecting his name with the entire freedom 
of criticism which I, as a layman, enjoy; but it will be 
evident to all experts that my play could not have been 
written but for the work done by Sir Almroth Wright in the 
theory and practice of securing immunization from bacterial 
diseases by the inoculation of “‘ vaccines ” made of their own 
bacteria: a practice incorrectly called vaccinetherapy (there 
is nothing vaccine about it) apparently because it is what vac- 


Preface on Doctors Ixxxix 


cination ought to be and isnot. Until Sir Almroth Wright, 
following up one of Metchnikoff’s most suggestive biological 
romances, discovered that the white corpuscles or phagocytes 
which attack and devour disease germs for us do their work 
only when we butter the disease germs appetizingly for them 
with a natural sauce which Sir Almroth named opsonin, and 
that our production of this condiment continually rises and 
falis rhythmically from negligibility to the highest efficiency, 
nobody had been able even to conjecture why the various 
serums that were from time to time introduced as having 
effected marvellous cures, presently made such direful havoc 
of some unfortunate patient that they had to be dropped 
hastily. The quantity of sturdy lying that was necessary to 
save the credit of inoculation in those days was prodigious ; 
and had it not been for the devotion shewn by the military 
authorities throughout Europe, who would order the en- 
tire disappearance of some disease from their armies, and 
bring it about by the simple plan of changing the name 
under which the cases were reported, or for our own Metro- 
politan Asylums Board, which carefully suppressed al! the 
medical reports that revealed the sometimes quite appalling 
effects of epidemics of revaccination, there is no saying what 
popular reaction might not have taken place against the 
whole immunization movement in therapeutics. 

The situation was saved when Sir Almroth Wright pointed 
out that if you inoculated a patient with pathogenic germs 
at a moment when his powers of cooking them for consump- 
tion by the phagocytes was receding to its lowest point, you 
would certainly make him a good deal worse and perhaps 
kill him, whereas if you made precisely the same inoculation 
when the cooking power was rising to one of its periodical 
climaxes, you would stimulate it to still further exertions 
and produce just the opposite result. And he invented a 
technique for ascertaining in which phase the patient 
happened to be at any given moment. The dramatic possi- 
bilities of this discovery and invention will be found in my 
play. But it is one thing to invent a technique: it is quite 


xc The Doctor’s Dilemma 


another to persuade the medical profession to acquire it. 
Our general practitioners, I gather, simply declined to acquire 
it, being mostly unable to afford either the acquisition or 
the practice of it when acquired. Something simple, cheap, 
and ready at all times for all comers, is, as I have shewn, 
the only thing that is economically possible in general prac- 
tice, whatever may be the case in Sir Almroth’s famous 
laboratory in St. Mary’s Hospital. It would have become 
necessary to denounce opsonin in the trade papers as a fad 
and Sir Almroth as a dangerous man if his practice in the 
laboratory had not led him to the conclusion that the cus- 
tomary inoculations were very much too powerful, and that 
a comparatively infinitesimal dose would not precipitate a 
negative phase of cooking activity, and might induce a positive 
one. And thus it happens that the refusal of our general 
practitioners to acquire the new technique is no longer quite 
so dangerous in practice as it was when The Doctor’s Dil- 
emma was written: nay, that Sir Ralph Bloomfield Boning- 
ton’s way of administering inoculations as if they were 
spoonfuls of squills may sometimes work fairly well. For all 
that, I find Sir Almroth Wright, on the 23rd May 1910, 
warning the Royal Society of Medicine that “the clinician 
has not yet been prevailed upon to reconsider his position,” 
which means that the general practitioner (“the doctor,” 
as he is called in our homes) is going on just as he did 
before, and could not afford to learn or practise a new 
technique even if he had ever heard of it. To the patient 
who does not know about it he will say nothing. To the 
patient who does, he will ridicule it, and disparage Sir 
Almroth. What else can he do, except confess his ignor- 
ance and starve? 

But now please observe how “the whirligig of time brings 
its revenges.” This latest discovery of the remedial virtue 
of a very very tiny hair of the dog that bit you reminds us, 
not only of Arndt’s law of protoplasmic reaction to stimuli, 
according to which weak and strong stimuli provoke oppo- 
site reactions, but of Hahnemann’s homeopathy, which was 








Preface on Doctors XC 


founded on the fact alleged by Hahnemann that drugs which 
produce certain symptoms when taken in ordinary perceptible 
quantities, will, when taken in infinitesimally small quan- 
tities, provoke just the opposite symptoms; so that the drug 
that gives you a headache will also cure a headache if you 
take little enough of it. I have already explained that the 
savage opposition which homeopathy encountered from the 
medical profession was not a scientific opposition ; for no- 
body seems to deny that some drugsact in the alleged manner. 
It was opposed simply because doctors and apothecaries lived 
by selling bottles and boxes of doctor’s stuff to be taken 
in spoonfuls or in pellets as large as peas; and people 
would not pay as much for drops and globules no bigger 
than pins’ heads. Nowadays, however, the more cultivated 
folk are beginning to beso suspicious of drugs, and the in- 
corrigibly superstitious people so profusely supplied with 
patent medicines (the medical advice to take them being 
wrapped round the bottle and thrown in for nothing) that 
homeopathy has become a way of rehabilitating the trade of 
prescription compounding, and is consequently coming into 
professional credit. At which point the theory of opsonins 
comes very opportunely to shake hands with it. 

Add to the newly triumphant homeopathist and the op- 
sonist that other remarkable innovator, the Swedish masseur, 
who does not theorize about you, but probes you all over 
with his powerful thumbs until he finds out your sore spots 
and rubs them away, besides cheating you into a little 
wholesome exercise; and you have nearly everything in 
medical practice today that is not flat witchcraft or pure 
commercial exploitation of human credulity and fear of 
death. Add to them a good deal of vegetarian and teetotal 
controversy raging round a clamor for scientific eating and 
drinking, and resulting in little so far except calling digestion 
Metabolism and dividing the public between the eminent 
doctor who tells us that we do not eat enough fish, and his 
equally eminent colleague who warns us that a fish diet 
must end in leprosy, and you have all that opposes with any 


XCil The Doctor’s Dilemma 


sort of countenance the rise of Christian Science with it: 
cathedrals and congregations and zeaiots and miracles 
and cures: all very silly, no doubt, but sane and sensible, 
poetic and hopeful, compared to the pseudo science of the 
commercial general practitioner, who toolishly clamors for 
the prosecution and even the execution of the Christian 
Scientists when their patients die, forgetting the long death- 
roll of his own patients. 

By the time this preface is in print the kaleidoscope may 
have had another shake; and opsonin may have gone the 
way of phlogiston at the hands of its own restless discoverer. 
I will not say that Hahnemann may have gone the way of 
Diafoirus ; for Diafoirus we have always with us. But we 
shall still pick up all our knowledge in pursuit of some 
Will o’ the Wisp or other. What is called science has always 
pursued the Elixir of Life and the Philosopher’s Stcne, and 
is just as busy after them to-day as ever it was in the days 
of Paracelsus. We call them by different names: Immuni- 
zation or Radiology or what not; but the dreams which 
lure us into the adventures from which we learn are always 
at bottom the same. Science becomes dangerous only when 
it imagines that it has reached its goal. What is wrong with 
priests and popes is that instead of being apostles and 
saints, they are nothing but empirics who say “JT know” 
instead of “I am learning,” and pray for credulity and 
inertia as wise men pray for scepticism and activity. Such 
abominations as the Inquisition and the Vaccination Acts 
are possible only in the famine years of the soul, when the 
_ great vital dogmas of honor, liberty, courage, the kinship 
of all life, faith that the unknown is greater than the known 
and is only the As Yet Unknown, and resolution to find a 
manly highway to it, have been forgotten in a paroxysm of 
littleness and terror in which nothing is active except con- 
cupiscence and the fear of death, playing on which any 
trader can filch a fortune, any blackguard gratify his cruelty, 
and any tyrant make us his slaves. 

Lest this should seem too rhetorical a conclusion for our 


Preface on Doctors XClli 


professional men of science, who are mostly trained not to 
believe anything unless it is worded in the jargon of those 
writers who, because they never really understand what they 
are trying to say, cannot find familiar words for it, and are 
therefore compelled to invent a new language of nonsense 
for every book they write, let me sum up my conclusions 
as dryly as is consistent with accurate thought and live 
conviction. 

1. Nothing is more dangerous than a poor doctor: not 
even a poor employer or a poor landlord. 

2. Of all the anti-social vested interests the worst is the 
vested interest in ill-health. 

3. Remember that an illness is a misdemeanor ; and treat 
the doctor as an accessory unless he notifies every case to 
the Public Health Atthority. 

4. Treat every death as a possible and, under our present 
system, a probable murder, by making it the subject of a 
reasonably conducted inquest; and execute the doctor, if 
necessary, as a doctor, by striking him off the register. 

5. Make up your mind how many doctors the community 
needs to keep it well. Do not register more or less than this 
number; and let registration constitute the doctor a civil 
servant with a dignified living wage paid out of public funds. 

6. Municipalize Harley Street. 

7. Treat the privavs operator exactly as you would treat 
a private executioner. 

8. Treat persons who profess to be able to cure disease as 
you treat fortune tellers. 

g. Keep the public carefully informed, by special statistics 
and announcements of individual cases, of all illnesses of 
doctors or in their families. 

10. Make it compulsory for a doctor using a brass plate 
to have inscribed on it, in addition to the letters indicating 
his qualifications, the words “Remember that I too am 
mortal.” 

11. In legislation and social organization, proceed on 
the principle that invalids, meaning persons who cannot 


XCiV The Doctor’s Dilemma 


keep themselves alive by their own activities, cannot, 
beyond reason, expect to be kept alive by the activity 
of others. There is a point at which the most energetic 
policeman or doctor, when called upon to deal with an 
apparently drowned person, gives up artificial respiration, 
although it is never possible to declare with certainty, at any 
point short of decomposition, that another five minutes of 
the exercise would not effect resuscitation. The theory that 
every individual alive is of infinite value is legislatively im- 
practicable. No doubt the higher the life we secure to the 
individual by wise social organization, the greater his value 
is tothe community, and the more pains we shall take to pull 
him through any temporary danger or disablement. But 
the man who costs more than he is worth is doomed by 
sound hygiene as inexorably as by sound economics. 

12. Do not try to live for ever. You will not succeed. 

13. Use your health, even to the point of wearing it out. 
That is what it is for. Spend all you have before you die; 
and do not outlive yourself. 

14. Take the utmost care to get well born and weil brought 
up. This means that your mother must have a good doctor. 
Be careful to go to a school where there is what they call 
a school clinic, where your nutrition and teeth and eyesight 
and other matters of importance to you will be attended to. 
Be particularly careful to have all this done at the expense 
of the nation, as otherwise it will not be done at all, the 
chances being about forty to one against your being able to 
pay for it directly yourself, even if you know how to set 
about it. Otherwise you will be what most people are at 
present: an unsound citizen of an unsound nation, without 
sense enough to be ashamed or unhappy about it. 


ACT I 


On the 15th Fune 1903, in the early forenoon, a medical 
student, surname Redpenny, Christian name unknown and of 
no importance, sits at work in a doctor's consulting-room. He 
devils for the doctor by answering his letters, acting as his domestic 
laboratory assistant, and making himself indispensable gener 
ally, in return for unspecified advantages involved by intimate 
intercourse with a leader of bis profession, and amounting to an 
informal apprenticeship and a temporary affiliation. Redpenny 
is not proud, and will do anything fe is asked without reserva- 
tion of his personal dignity if he is asked in a fellow-creaturely 
way. He is a wide-open-eyed, reacy, credulous, friendly, hasty 
youth, with his hair and clothes in reluctant transition from the 
untidy boy to the tidy doctor. 

Redpenny is interrupted by the entrance of an old serving- 
woman who has never known the cares, the preoccupations, the 
responsibilities, jealousies, and anxieties of personal beauty. She 
has the complexion of a never-washed gypsy, incurable by any 
detergent; and she has, not a regular beard and moustaches, 
which could at least be trimmed and waxed into a masculine pre- 
sentableness, but a whole crop of small beards and moustaches, 
mostly springing from moles all over her face. She carries a 
duster and toddles about meddlesomely, spying out dust so dili- 
gently that whilst she is flicking off one speck she is already 
looking elsewhere for another. In conversation she has the same 

I B 


2 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


trick, hardly ever looking at the person she is addressing except 
when she is excited. She has only one manner, and that is the 
manner of an old family nurse to a child just after it has learnt 
to walk. She has used her ugliness to secure indulgences un- 
attainable by Cleopatra or Fair Rosamund, and has the further 
great advantage over them that age increases her qualification 
instead of impairing it. Being an industrious, agreeable, and 
popular old soul, she is a walking sermon on the vanity of femi- 
nine prettiness. Fust as Redpenny has no discovered Christian 
name, she has no discovered surname, and is known throughout 
the doctors’ quarter between Cavendish Square and the Mary- 
lebone Rodd simply as Emmy. 

The consulting-room has two windows looking on Queen Anne 
Street. Between the two is a marble-topped console, with 
haunched gilt legs ending in sphinx claws. The huge pier-glass 
which surmounts it is mostly disabled from reflection by elaborate 
painting on its surface of palms, ferns, likes, tulips, and sun- 
flowers. The adjoining wall contains the fireplace, with two 
arm-chairs before it. As we happen to face the corner we see 
nothing of the other two walls. On the right of the fireplace, or 
rather on the right of any person facing the fireplace, is the door. 
Ox its left is the writing-table at which Redpenny sits. It is 
an untidy table with a microscope, several test tubes, and a spirit 
lamp standing up through its litter of papers. There is a couch 
in the middle of the room, at right angles to the console, and 
parallel to the fireplace. A chair stands between the couch and 
the window. Another in the corner. Another at the other end of 
the windowed wall, The windows have green Venetian blinds 
and rep curtains; and there isa gasaler; but it is a convert 
to electric lighting. The wall paper and carpets are mostly 
green, coeval with the gasalier and the Venetian blinds. The 
house, in fact, was so well furnished in the middle of the XI Xth 
century that it stands unaltered to this day and is still quite 
presentable. 


EMMY [entering and immediately beginning to dust the couch] 
Theres a lady bothering me to see the doctor. 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 3 


REDPENNY [distracted by the interruption] Well, she cant 
see the doctor. Look here: whats the use of telling you 
that the doctor cant take any new patients, when the mo- 
ment a knock comes to the door, in you bounce to ask 
whether he can see somebody ? 

EMMY. Who asked you whether he could see somebody? 

REDPENNY. You did. 

EMMY. I said theres a lady bothering me to see the doc- 
tor. That isnt asking. Its telling. 

REDPENNY. Well, is the lady bothering you any reason 
for you to come bothering me when I’m busy? 

EMMY. Have you seen the papers? 

REDPENNY. No. 

EMMY. Not seen the birthday honors? 

REDPENNY [beginning to swear] What the— 

EMMY. Now, now, ducky! 

REDPENNY. What do you suppose I care about the birth- 
day honors? Get out of this with your chattering. Dr 
Ridgeon will be down before I have these letters ready. 
Get out. 

EMMY. Dr Ridgeon wont never be down any more, young 
man. 

She detects dust on the console and is down on it immedi- 
ately, 

REDPENNY [ jumping up and following fer] What? 

EMMY. He’s been made a knight. Mind you dont go Dr 
Ridgeoning him in them letters. Sir Colenso Ridgeon is 
to be his name now. 

REDPENNY. 1’m jolly glad. 

EMMY. I never was so taken aback. I always thought 
his great discoveries was fudge (let alone the mess of 
them) with his drops of biood and tubes full of Maltese - 
fever and the like. Now he’ll have a rare laugh at me. 

REDPENNY. Serve you right! It was like your cheek to 
talk to him about science. [He returns to his table and 
resumes his writing]. 

emmy. Oh, I dont think much of science; and neither 


4 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


will you when youve lived as long with it as I have. 
Whats on my mind is answering the door, Old Sir Patrick 
Cullen has been here already and left first congratulations 
- —hadnt time to come up on his way to the hospital, but was 
determined to be first—coming back, he said. All the rest 
will be here too: the knocker will be going all day. What 
I’m afraid of is that the doctor’ll want a footman like all 
the rest, now that he’s Sir Colenso. Mind: dont you go 
putting him up to it, ducky; for he’ll never have any 
comfort with anybody but me to answer the door. I know 
who to let in and who to keep out. And that reminds me 
of the poor lady. I think he ought to see her. She’s just 
the kind that puts him in a good temper. [She dusts Red- 
penny’s papers). 

REDPENNY. I tell you he cant see anybody. Do go away, 
Emmy. How can I work with you dusting all over me like 
this? 

EMMY. I’m not hindering you working—if you call writ- 
ing letters working. There goes the bell. [S4e looks out of 
the window]. A doctor’s carriage. Thats more congratula- 
tions. [Ste és going out when Sir Colenso Ridgeon enters]. 
Have you finished your two eggs, sonny? 

RIDGEON. Yes. 

EMMY. Have you put on your clean vest? 

RIDGEON. Yes. 

EMMY. Thats my ducky diamond! Now keep yourself 
tidy and dont go messing about and dirtying your hands: 
the people are coming to congratulate you. [S/e goes out]. 

Sir Colenso Ridgeon is a man of fifty who has never shaken 
off his youth. He has the off-handed manner and the little 
audacities of address which a shy and sensitive man acquires in 
breaking himself in to intercourse with all sorts and conditions of 
men. His face is a good deal lined; his movements are slower 
than, for instance, Redpenny’s; and his flaxen hair has lost its 
lustre; but in figure and manner he is more the young man than 
the titled physician, Even the lines in his face are those of over- 
work and restless scepticism, perhaps partly of curiosity and 








Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 5 


appetite, rather than of age. Fust at present the announcement 
of bis knighthood in the morning papers makes him specially self- 
conscious, and consequently specially off-hand with Redpenny. 

RipGEON. Have you seen the papers? Youll have to alter 
the name in the letters if you havnt. 

REDPENNY. Emmy has just told me. I’m awfully glad. 
== 

RIpDGEON. Enough, young man, enough. You will soon 
get accustomed to it. 

REDPENNY. They ought to have done it years ago. 

ripGEON. They would have; only they couldnt stand 
Emmy opening the door, I daresay. 

EMMY [at the door, announcing| Dr Shoemaker. [She with- 
draws]. 

A middle-aged gentleman, well dressed, comes in with a 
friendly but propitiatory air, not quite sure of his reception. 
His combination of soft manners and responsive kindliness, with 
a certain unseizable reserve and a familiar yet foreign chiselling 
of feature, reveal the Few: in this instance the handsome gentle- 
manly Few, gone a little pigeon-breasted and stale after thirty, 
as handsome young Jews often do, but still decidedly good-tooking. 

THE GENTLEMAN. Do you remember me? Schutzmacher. 
University College school and Belsize Avenue. Loony 
Schutzmacher, you know. 

ripceon, What! Loony! [He shakes hands cordially]. 
Why, man, I thought you were dead long ago. Sit down. 
[Schutzmacher sits on the couch: Ridgeon on the chair between 
it and the window], Where have you been these thirty 
years? 

SCHUTZMACHER. In general practice, until a few months 
ago. Ive retired. 

ripczon. Well done, Loony! I wish J could afford to 
retire. Was your practice in London? 

SCHUTZMACHER. No. 

ripGEON. Fashionable coast practice, I suppose. 

SCHUTZMACHER. How could I afford to buy a fashion- 
able practice? Ihadnt a rap. I set up in a manufacturing 


6 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


town in the midlands in a little surgery at ten shillings a 
week. 

ripceon. And made your fortune? 

sCHUTZMACHER. Well, I’m pretty comfortable. I have 
a place in Hertfordshire besides our flat in town. If you 
ever want a quiet Saturday to Monday, I’ll take you down 
in my motor at an hour’s notice. 

RIDGEON. Just rolling in money! I wish you rich g.p.’s 
would teach me how to make some. Whats the secret 
of it? 

SCHUTZMACHER. Oh, in my case the secret was simple 
enough, though I suppose I should have got into trouble if 
it had attracted any notice. And I’m afraid youll think it 
rather infra dig. 

ripceon. Oh, I have an open mind. What was the secret? 

SCHUTZMACHER. Well, the secret was just two words. 

ripceon. Not Consultation Free, was it? 

SCHUTZMACHER [shocked] No, no. Really! 

RIDGEON [apologetic] Of course not. I was only joking. 

SCHUTZMACHER. My two words were simply Cure 
Guaranteed. 

RIDGEON [admiring] Cure Guaranteed! 

SCHUTZMACHER. Guaranteed. After all, thats what every- 
body wants from a doctor, isnt it? 

ripceon. My dear Loony, it was an inspiration. Was it 
on the brass plate? 

SCHUTZMACHER. There was no brass plate. It was a shop 
window: red, you know, with black lettering. Doctor 
Leo Schutzmacher, L.R.C.P. M.R.C.S. Advice and medi- 
cine sixpence. Cure Guarantced. 

ripGeon. And the guarantee proved sound nine times 
out of ten, eh? 

SCHUTZMACHER [rather hurt at so moderate an estimate| Oh, 
much oftener than that. You see, most people get well all 
right if they are careful and you give them a little sensible 
advice. And the medicine really did them good. Parrish’s 
Chemical Food: phosphates, you know. One tablespoonful 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 7 


to a twelve-ounce bottle of water: nothing better, no 
matter what the case is. 

ripGEoN. Redpenny: make a note of Parrish’s Chemical 
Food. 

SCHUTZMACHER. I take it myself, you know, when I feel 
run down. Good-bye. You dont mind my calling, do you? 
Just to congratulate you. 

RIDGEON. Delighted, my dear Loony. Come to lunch on 
Saturday next week. Bring your motor and take me down 
to Hertford. 

scHUTZMaACcHER. I will. We shall be delighted. Thank 
you. Good-bye. [He goes out with Ridgeon, who returns 
immediately). 

REDPENNY. Old Paddy Cullen was here before you were 
up, to be the first to congratulate you. 

ripGEoN. Indeed. Who taught you to speak of Sir Patrick 
Cullen as old Paddy Cullen, you yofing ruffian? 

REDPENNY. You never call him anything else. 

ripGEON. Not now that Iam Sir Colenso. Next thing, 
you fellows will be calling me old Colly Ridgeon. 

REDPENNY. We do, at St Anne’s. 

RIDGEON. Yach! Thats what makes the medical student 
the most disgusting figure in modern civilization. No 
veneration, no manners—no— 

emmy [at the door, announcing] Sir Patrick Cullen. [She 
retires]. 

Sir Patrick Cullen is more than twenty years older than 
Ridgeon, not yet quite at the end of his tether, but near it and 
resigned to it, His name, his plain, downright, sometimes rather 
arid common sense, his large build and stature, the absence of 
those odd moments of ceremonial servility by which an old 
English doctor sometimes shews you what the status of the pro- 
Session was in England in his youth, and an occasional turn of 
speech, are Lrish; but he has lived all his life in England and 
is thoroughly acclimatized. His manner to Ridgeon, whom be 
likes, is whimsical and fatherly: to others he is a little gruff and 
uninviting, apt to substitute more or less expressive grunts for 


8 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act ! 


articulate speech, and generally indisposed, at bis age, to make 
much social effort. He shakes Ridgeon’s hand and beams at him 
cordially and jocularly. 

sin PATRICK, Well, young chap. Is your hat too small 
for you, eh? 

ripceoN. Much too small. I owe it all to you. © 

sin PaTrick. Blarney, my boy. Thank you all the 
same. [He sits in one of the arm-chairs near the fireplace. 
Ridgeon sits on the couch]. Ive come to talk to you a bit. 
[Zo Redpenny] Young man: get out. 

REDPENNY. Certainly, Sir Patrick [He collects his papers and 
makes for the door). 

sin PaTRicK. Thank you, Thats a good lad. [Redpenny 
vanishes]. They all put up with me, these young chaps, 
because I’m an old man, a real old man, not like you. 
Youre only beginning to give yourself the airs of age. 
Did you ever see a boy cultivating a moustache? Well, 
a middle-aged doctor cultivating a grey head is much the 
same sort of spectacle. 

RIDGEON. Good Lord! yes: I suppose so, And I 
thought that the days of my vanity were past. Tell me: 
at what age does a man leave off being a fool? 

sIR PATRICK. Remember the Frenchman who asked his 
grandmother at what age we get free from the temptations 
of love. The old woman said she didnt know. [Ridgeon 
laughs]. Well, I make you the same answer. But the 
world’s growing very interesting to me now, Colly. 

RIDGEON. You keep up your interest in science, do you? 

sin patrick. Lord! yes. Modern science is a wonderful 
thing. Look at your great discovery! Look at all the great 
discoveries! Where are they leading to? Why, right back 
to my poor dear old father’s ideas and discoveries. He’s 
been dead now over forty years. Oh, it’s very interesting. 

ripGeon. Well, theres nothing like progress, is there? 

SIR PATRICK. Dont misunderstand me, my boy. I’m not 
belittling your discovery. Most discoveries are made 
regularly every fifteen years; and it’s fully a hundred and 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 9 


fifty since yours was made last. Thats something to be 
proud of. But your discovery’s not new. It’s only inocula- 
tion. My father practised inoculation until it was made 
criminal in eighteen-forty. ‘That broke the poor old man’s 
heart, Colly: he died of it. And now it turns out that 
my father was right after all. Youve brought us back to 
inoculation. 

ripczon. I know nothing about smallpox. My line is 
tuberculosis and typhoid and plague. But of course the 
principle of all vaccines is the same. 

sin PATRICK. Tuberculosis? M-m-m-m! Youve found 
out how to cure consumption, eh? 

r1DGEON. I believe so. 

sir PaTRICK. Ah yes. It’s very interesting. What is it 
the old cardinal says in Browning’s play? ‘‘I have known 
four and twenty leaders of revolt.” Well, Ive known over 
thirty men that found out howto cure consumption. Why 
do people go on dying of it, Colly? Devilment, I suppose. 
There was my father’s old friend George Boddington of 
Sutton Coldfield. He discovered the open-air cure in 
eighteen-forty. He was ruined and driven out of his prac- 
tice for only opening the windows; and now we wont let 
a consumptive patient have as much as a roof over his 
head. Oh, it’s very very interesting to an old man. 

RiDGEON. You old cynic, you dont believe a bit in my 
discovery. 

sik PATRICK. No, no: I dont go quite so far as that, 
Colly. But still, you remember Jane Marsh? 

RIDGEON. Jane Marsh? No. 

sIR PATRICK. You dont! 

RIDGEON. No, 

SIR PATRICK. You mean to tell me you dont remember 
the woman with the tuberculous ulcer on her arm? 

r1pGEON [exlightened] Oh, your washerwoman’s daughter. 
Was her name Jane Marsh? I forgot. 

sIR PATRICK. Perhaps youve forgotten also that you under- 
took to cure her with Koch’s tuberculin. 


10 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


ripceon. And instead of curing her, it rotted her arm 
right off. Yes: I remember. Poor Jane! However, she 
makes a good living out of that arm now by shewing it at 
medical lectures. 

sIR PATRICK. Still, that wasnt quite what you intended, 
was it? 

RipGEON. I took my chance of it. 

SIR PATRICK. Jane did, you mean. 

RIDGEON. Well, it’s always the patient who has to take 
the chance when an experiment is necessary. And we can 
find out nothing without experiment. 

sin Parrick. What did you find out from Jane’s case? 

ripGEON. I found out that the inoculation that ought to 
cure sometimes kills. 

sIR PATRICK. I could have told you that. Ive tried these 
modern inoculations a bit myself. Ive killed people with 
them; and Ive cured people with them; but I gave them 
up because I never could tell which I was going to do. 

RIDGEON [faking a pamphlet from a drawer in the writing- 
table and handing it to him] Read that the next time you 
have an hour to spare; and youll find out why. 

srR PATRICK [grumbling and fumbling for his spectacles} Oh, 
bother your pamphlets. Whats the practice of it? [Look- 
ing at the pamphlet] Opsonin? What the devil is opsonin? 

RIDGEON. Opsonin is what you butter the disease germs 
with to make your white blood corpuscles eat them. [He 
sits down again on the couch). 

sIR PATRICK. Thats not new. Ive heard this notion that 
the white corpuscles—what is it that whats his name ?-— 
Metchnikoff—calls them? 

RIDGEON. Phagocytes. 

siR PATRICK. Aye, phagocytes: yes, yes, yes. Well, I 
heard this theory that the phagocytes eat up the disease 
germs years ago: long before you came into fashion. Be- 
sides, they dont always eat them. 

RIDGEON. They do when you butter them with opsonin 

SIR PATRICK. Gammon, 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma II 


ripGEoN. No: it’s not gammon. What it comes to in 
practice is this. The phagocytes wont eat the microbes 
unless the microbes are nicely buttered for them. Well, 
the patient manufactures the butter for himself all right; 
but my discovery is that the manufacture of that butter, 
which 1 call opsonin, goes on in the system by ups and 
downs—Nature being always rhythmical, you know—and 
that what the inoculation does is to stimulate the ups or 
downs, as the case may be. If we had inoculated Jane 
Marsh when her butter factory was on the up-grade, we 
should have cured her arm. But we got in on the down-grade 
and lost her arm for her. I call the up-grade the positive 
phase and the down-grade the negative phase. Everything 
depends on your inoculating at the right moment. Inocu- 
late when the patient is in the negative phase and you kill: 
inoculate when the patient is in the positive phase and 
you cure. 

stk paTRicK. And pray how are you to know whether 
the patient is in the positive or the negative phase? 

ripceon. Send a drop of the patient’s blood to the 
laboratory at St Anne’s; and in fifteen minutcs I'll give 
you his opsonin index in figures. If the figure is one, 
inoculate and cure: if it’s under point eight, inoculate and 
kill, Thats my discovery: the most important that has been 
made since Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood. 
My tuberculosis patients dont die now. 

sik PATRICK. And mine do when my inoculation catches 
them in the negative phase, as you call it. ‘Eh? 

RIDGEON. Precisely. To inject a vaccine into a patient 
without first testing his opsonin is as near murder as a 
respectable practitioner can get. If I wanted to kill a man 
T should kill him that way. 

EMMY [J/ooking in] Will you see a lady that wants her 
husband’s lungs cured? 

RIDGEON [impatiently] No. Havnt I told you I will see 
nobody? [Zo Sir Patrick] 1 live in a state of siege ever 
since it got about that I’m a magician who can cure con- 


12 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


sumption with a drop of serum. [To Emmy] Dont come to 
me again about people who have no appointments. I tell 
you I can see nobody. 

EMMY. Well, I'll tell her to wait a bit. 

RIDGEON [ furious] Youll tell her I cant see her, and send 
her away: do you hear? 

EMMY [zzmoved] Well, will you see Mr Cutler Walpole? 
He dont want a cure: he only wants to congratulate you. 

RipGEON. Of course. Shew him up. [S#e turaus to go]. 
Stop. [To Sir Patrick] I want two minutes more with you 
between ourselves. [Jo Emmy] Emmy: ask Mr Walpole 
to wait just two minutes, while I finish a consultation. 

EMMY. Oh, he’ll wait all right. He’s talking to the 
poor lady. [S4e goes out]. 

SIR PATRICK. Well? what is it? 

RIDGEON. Dont laugh at me. I want your advice. 

SIR PATRICK. Professional advice ? 

ripGeon. Yes. Theres something the matter with me. 
I dont know what it is. 

sR PATRICK. Neither dol. I suppose youve been sounded. 

RIDGEON. Yes, of course. ‘Theres nothing wrong with 
any of the organs: nothing special, anyhow. But I have a 
curious aching: I dont know where: I cant localize it. 
Sometimes I think it’s my hear’: sometimes I suspect my 
spine. It doesnt exactly hurt me; but it unsettles me com- 
pletely. I feel that something is going to happen. And 
there are other symptoms. Scraps of tunes come into my 
head that seem to me very pretty, though theyre quite 
commonplace. 

sink PATRICK. Do you hear voices? 

RIDGEON. No, 

sIR PATRICK. I’m glad of that. When my patients tell 
me that theyve made a greater discovery than Harvey, and 
that they hear voices, I lock them up. 

ripGEon. You think I’m mad! Thats just the suspicion 
that has come across me once or twice. ell me the truth: 
I can bear it. 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 13 


SIR PATRICK. Youre sure there are no voices? 

RIDGEON. Quite sure. 

sIR PATRICK. Then it’s only foolishness. 

RIDGEON. Have you ever met anything like it before in 
your practice ? 

SIR PATRICK. Oh, yes: often. It’s very common between 
the ages of seventeen and twenty-two. It sometimes comes 
on again at forty or thereabouts. Youre a bachelor, you 
see. It’s not serious—if youre careful. 

ripGEON. About my food ? 

sIR PATRICK. No: about your behavior. Theres nothing 
wrong with your spine; and theres nothing wrong with 
your heart ; but theres something wrong with your common 
sense, Youre not going to die; but you may be going to 
make a fool of yourself. So be careful. 

RIDGEON. I see you dont believe in my discovery. Well, 
sometimes I dont believe in it myself. Thank you all the 
same. Shall we have Walpole up? 

sIR PATRICK. Oh, have him up. [Ridgeon rings]. He’s a 
clever ‘operator, is Walpole, though he’s only one of your 
chloroform surgeons. In my early days, you made your man © 
drunk ; and the porters and students held him down; and ” 
you had to set your teeth and finish the job fast. Nowadays 
you work at your ease; and the pain doesnt come until 
afterwards, when youve taken your cheque and rolled up 
your bag and left the house. I tell you, Colly, chloroform 
has done a lot of mischief. It’s enabled every fool to be a 
surgeon. 

RIDGEON [to Emmy, who answers the bell] Shew Mr Wal- 
pole up. : 

EMMY, He’s talking to the lady. 

RIDGEON [exasperated] Did I not tell you— 

Emmy goes out without heeding him. He gives it up, witha 
shrug, and plants himself with his back to the console, leaning 
resignedly against it. 

SIR PATRICK. ] know your Cutler Walpoles and their like. 
Theyve found out that a man’s body’s full of bits and 


14 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


scraps of old organs he has no mortal use for. Thanks to 
chloroform, you can cut half a dozen of them out without 
leaving him any the worse, except for the illness and the 
guineas it costs him. I knew the Walpoles well fifteen 
years ago. The father used tosnip off the ends of people’s 
uvulas for fifty guineas, and paint throats with caustic every 
day for a year at two guineas a time. His brother-in-law 
extirpated tonsils for two hundred guineas until he took up 
women’s cases at double the fees. Cutler himself worked 
hard at anatomy to find something fresh to operate on; 
and at last he got hold of something he calls the nuciform 
sac, which he’s made quite the fashion. People pay him 
five hundred guineas to cut itout. They might as well get 
their hair cut for all the difference it makes ; but I suppose 
they feel important after it. You cant go out to dinner 
now without your neighbor bragging to you of some use- 
less operation or other. 

EMMY [announcing] Mr Cutler Walpole. [S4e goes out]. 

Cutler Walpole is an energetic, unhesitating man of forty, 
with a cleanly modelled face, very decisive and symmetrical 
about the shortish, salient, rather pretty nose, and the three ~ 
trimly turned corners made by his chin and jaws. ‘In compari- 
son with Ridgeon’s delicate broken lines, and Sir Patrick's softly 
rugged aged ones, his face looks machine-made and beeswaxed; 
but his scrutinizing, daring eyes give it life and force. He seems 
never at a loss, never in doubt: one feels that if he made a mis- 
take he would make it thoroughly and firmly. He has neat, well- 
nourished hands, short arms, and is built for strength and com- 
pactness rather than for height. He is smartly dressed with a 
fancy waistcoat, a richly colored scarf secured by a handsome 
ring, ornaments on his watch chain, spats on his shoes, and a 
general air of the well-to-do sportsman about him. He goes 
straight across to Ridgeon and shakes hands with him. 

waLpoLe. My dear Ridgeon, best wishes! heartiest con- 
gratulations! You deserve it. 

RiDGEON. Thank you. 

waLPoLe. As a man, mind you. You deserve it as a 





Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 15 


man. ‘I'he opsonin is simple rot, as any capable surgeon 
can tell you; but we’re all delighted to see your personal 
qualities officially recognized. Sir Patrick: how are you? 
I sent you a paper lately about a little thing I invented: 
a new saw. For shoulder blades. 

SIR PATRICK [/editatively] Yes: I gotit. It’s a good saw: 
a useful, handy instrument. 

WALPOLE [confidently] I knew youd see its points. 

siR PATRICK. Yes: Jremember that saw sixty-five years ago. 

WALPOLE. What! 

siR PATRICK. It was called a cabinetmaker’s jimmy then. 

WALPOLE. Get out! Nonsense! Cabinetmaker be— 

ripGzon. Never mind him, Walpole. He’s jealous. 

waLPOLe. By the way, 1 hope I’m not disturbing you 
two in anything private. 

rinczon. No no. Sit down. I was only consulting 
him. I’m rather out of sorts. Overwork, I suppose. 

WALPOLE [szift/y] I know whats the matter with you. 
I can see it in your complexion. I can feel it in the grip 
of your hand. 

ripGEoN. What is it? 

waLPoLe. Blood-poisoning. 

RiDGEON. Blood-poisoning ! Impossible. 

waLPoLe. I tell you, blood-poisoning. Ninety-five per 
cent of the human race suffer from chronic blood-poison- 
ing, and die of it. It’s as simple as A.B.C. Your nuciform 
sac is full of decaying matter—undigested food and waste 
products—rank ptomaines. Now you take my advice, 
Ridgeon. Let me cut it out for you. Youll be another 
man afterwards. 

SIR PATRICK, Dont you like him as he is? 

waLPOLe. No I dont. I dont like any man who hasnt a 
healthy circulation. I tell you this: in an intelligently 
governed country people wouldnt be allowed to go about 
with nuciform sacs, making themselves centres of infection. 
The operation ought to be compulsory: it’s ten times more 
important than vaccination. 


16 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


sIR PATRICK. Have you had your own sac removed, may 
I ask? 

WALPOLE [friumphantly| 1 havnt got one. Look at me! 
Ive no symptoms. I’m as sound asa bell. About five per 
cent of the population havnt got any; and I’m one of the 
five per cent. I'll give you an instance. You know Mrs 
Jack Foljambe: the smart Mrs Foljambe? I operated at 
Easter on her sister-in-law, Lady Gorran, and found she 
had the biggest sac I ever saw: it held about two ounces, 
Well, Mrs Foljambe had the right spirit—the genuine 
hygienic instinct. She couldnt stand her sister-in-law being 
a clean, sound woman, and she simply a whited sepulchre. 
So she insisted on my operating on her, too. And by 
George, sir, she hadnt any sac at all. Nota trace! Nota 
rudiment!! I was so taken aback—so interested, that I 
forgot to take the sponges out, and was stitching them up 
inside her when the nurse missed them. Somehow, I'd 
made sure she’d have an exceptionally large one. [He sits 
down on the couch, squaring his shoulders and shooting his hands 
out of his cuffs as he sets his knuckles akimbo}. 

emmy [/ooking in] Sir Ralph Bloomfield Bonington. 

A long and expectant pause follows this announcement. All 
look to the door; but there is no Sir Ralph, 

RIDGEON [at /ast] Where is he? 

EMMY [Jooking back] Drat him, I thought he was follow- 
ing me. He’s stayed down to talk to that lady. 

ripGEON [exploding] I told you to tell that lady—[ Emmy 
vanishes]. 

WALPOLE [jumping up again| Oh, by the way, Ridgeon, 
that reminds me. Ive been talking to that poor girl. It’s 
her husoand; and she thinks it’s a case of consumption: 
the usual wrong diagnosis: these damned general prac- 
titioners ought never to be allowed to touch a patient 
except under the orders of a consultant. She’s been 
describing his symptoms to me; and the case is as plain 
- . a pikestaff: bad blood-poisoning. Now she’s poor. She 

cant afford to have him operated on. Well, you send him 





Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 17 


to me: I'll do it for nothing. Theres room for him in my 
nursing home. Ill put him straight, and feed him up and 
make her happy. I like making people happy. [He goes to 
the chair near the window). 

emmy [coking in] Here he is. 

Sir Ralph Bloomfield Bonington wafts himself into the room. 
He isa tall man, with a head like a tall and slender egg. He 
has been in his time a slender man; but now, in his sixth decade, 
his waistcoat has filled out somewhat. His fair eyebrows arch good- 
natureadly and uncritically, He has a most musical voice; bis 
speech is a perpetual anthem; and he never tires of the sound of tt. 
He radiates an enormous self-satisfaction, checring, reassuring, 
healing by the mere incompatibility of disease or anxiety with 
his welcome presence. Even broken bones, it is said, have been 
known to unite at the sound of his voice: he is a born healer, as 
independent of mere treatment and skill as any Christian 
scientist. When he expands into oratory cr scientifie exposition, 
he is as energetic as Walpole; but it is with a bland, voluminous, 
atmospheric energy, which envelops its subject and its audience, 
and makes interruption or inattention impossible, and imposes 
veneration and credulity ow all but the strongest minds. He is 
known in the medical world as B. B.; and the envy roused by 
his success in practice is softened by the conviction that be is, 
scientifically considered, a colossal humbug: the fact being that, 
though he knows just as much (and just as little) as his con- 
temporaries, the qualifications that pass muster in common 
men reveal their weakness when lung on his egregious per- 
sonality. 

p.B. Aha! Sir Colenso. Sir Colenso, eh? Welcome to 
the order of knighthood. 

ripGEON [shaking fands| Thank you, B. B. 

B. B. What! Sir Patrick! And how are we to-day? a 
little chilly? a little stiff? but hale and still the cleverest 
of us all. [Sir Patrick grunts]. What! Walpole! the 
absent-minded beggar: eh? 

waLpoLe. What does that mean? 

B. B. Have you forgotten the lovely opera singer 

c 


18 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


I sent you to have that growth taken off her vocal 
cords? 

WALPOLE [springing to his feet] Great heavens, man, you 
dont mean to say you sent her for a throat operation! 

B. B. [archly] Aha! Ha ha! Aha! [¢ri/ling like a lark as 
he shakes his finger at Walpole). You removed her nuciform 
sac. Well, well! force of habit! force of habit! Never 
mind, ne-e-e-ver mind. She got back her voice after it, and 
thinks you the greatest surgeon alive; and so you are, so 
you are, so you are. 

WALPOLE [in a tragic whisper, intensely serious] Blood- 
poisoning. Isee. I see. [He sits down again]. 

sin PATRICK. And how is a certain distinguished family 
getting on under your care, Sir Ralph? 

B. B. Our friend Ridgeon will be gratified to hear that I 
have tried his opsonin treatment on little Prince Henry with 
complete success. 

RIDGEON [startled and anxious] But how 

B. B. [continuing] I suspected typhoid: the head gardener’s 
boy had it; soI just called at St Anne’s one day and got a 
tube of your very excellent serum. You were out, un- 
fortunately. 

r1pGEON. I hope they explained to you carefully 

B. B. [waving away the absurd suggestion] Lord bless you, 
my dear fellow, I didnt need any explanations. I’d left my 
wife in the carriage at the door; and I’d no time to be 
taught my business by your young chaps. I know all about 
it. Ive handled these anti-toxins ever since they first came 
out. 

RipGEON. But theyre not anti-toxins; and theyre danger- 
ous unless you use them at the right time. 

B. B. Of course they are. Everything 1s dangerous unless 
you take it at the right time. An apple at breakfast does; 
you good: an apple at bedtime upsets you for a week. 
There are only two rules for anti-toxins. First, dont be 
afraid of them: second, inject them a quarter of an hour 
before meals, three times a day. 











Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 19 


RIDGEON [appalled | Great heavens, B. B., no, no, no. 

B. B. [sweeping on irresistibly] Yes, yes, yes, Colly. The 
proof of the pudding is in the eating, you know. It was 
an immense success. It acted like magic on the little 
prince. Up went his temperature; off to bed I packed 
him; and in a week he was all right again, and absolutely 
immune from typhoid for the rest of his life. The family 
were very nice about it: their gratitude was quite touching ; 
but I said they owed it all to you, Ridgeon; and I am glad 
to think that your knighthood is the result. 

r1pGEoN. I am deeply obliged to you. [Overcome, Le sits 
down on the chair near the couch). 

B. B. Not at all, not at all. Your own merit. Come! 
come! come! dont give way. 

RIDGEON. It’s nothing. I was a little giddy just now. 
Overwork, I suppose. 

WALPOLE. Blood-poisoning. 

B. B. Overwork! Theres no such thing. I do the work 
of tensmen. Am I giddy? No. NO. If youre not well, 
you have a disease. It may be a slight one; but it’s a dis- 
ease. And what is a disease? The lodgment in the system 
of a pathogenic germ, and the multiplication of that germ. 
What is the remedy? A very simple one. Find the germ 
and kill it. 

SIR PATRICK. Suppose theres no germ? 

B. B. Impossible, Sir Patrick: there must be a germ: 
else how could the patient be ill? 

siR PATRICK. Can you shew me the germ of over- 
work? 

B. B. No; but why? Why? Because, my dear Sir Patrick, 
though the germ is there, it’s invisible, Nature has given 
it no danger signal for us. These germs—these bacilli—are 
translucent bodies, like glass, like water. To make them 
visible you must stain them. Well, my dear Paddy, do 
what you will, some of them wont stain. They wont take 
cochineal : they wont take methylene blue: they wont take 
gentian violet: they wont take any coloring matter. Conse- 


20 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


quently, though we know, as scientific men, that they exist, 
we cannot sec them. But can you disprove their exist- 
ence? Can you conceive the disease existing without 
them? Can you, for instance, shew me a case of diphtheria 
without the bacillus? 

sin parrick. No; but I’ll shew you the same bacillus, 
without the disease, in your own throat. 

B. B. No, not the same, Sir Patrick. It is an entirely 
different bacillus; only the two are, unfortunately, so 
exactly alike that you cannot see the difference. You must 
understand, my dear Sir Patrick, that every one of these 
interesting little creatures has an imitator. Just as men 
imitate each other, germs imitate each other. There is the 
genuine diphtheria bacillus discovered by Loeffler; and 
there is the pseudo-bacillus, exactly like it, which you 
could find, as you say, in my own throat. 

sin PaTRick. And how do you tell one from the other? 

B. B. Well, obviously, if the bacillus is the genuine 
Leffler, you have diphtheria; and if it’s the pseudo- 
bacillus, youre quite well. Nothing simpler. Science is 
always simple and always profound. It is only the half- 
truths that are dangerous. Ignorant faddists pick up some 
superficial information about germs; and they write to the 
papers and try to discredit science. They dupe and mislead 
many honest and worthy people. But science has a perfect 
answer to them on every point. 


A little learning is a dangerous thing : 
Drink deep; or taste not the Pierian spring. 


I mean no disrespect to your generation, Sir Patrick : some 
of you old stagers did marvels through sheer professional 
intuition and clinical experience; but when IJ think of the 
average men of your day, ignorantly bleeding and cupping 
and purging, and scattering germs over their patients from 
their clothes and instruments, and contrast all that with 
the scientific certainty and simplicity of my treatment of 
the little prince the other day, I cant help being proud of 





Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 21 


my own generation: the men who were trained on the 
germ theory, the veterans of the great struggle over Evolu- 
tion in the seventies. We may have our faults; but at 
least we are men of science. That is why I am taking up 
your treatment, Ridgeon, and pushing it. It’s scientific. 
[He sits down on the chair near the couch]. 

EMMY [at the docr, announging| Dr Blenkinsop. 

Dr Blenkinsop is in very different case from the others. He 
is clearly not a prosperous man. He is flabby and shabby, 
cheaply fed and cheaply clothed. He has the lines made by a 
conscience between his eyes, and the lines made by continual 
money worries all over his face, cut all the deeper as he has 
seen better days, and hails his well-to-do colleagues as their 
contemporary and old hospital friend, though even in this he has 
to struggle with the difidence of poverty and relegation to the 
poorer middle class. 

ripceon. How are you, Blenkinsop? 

BLENKiNSOP. Ive come to offer my humble congratula- 
tions.. Oh dear! all the great guns are before me. 

B. B [patronizing, but charming] How d’ye do, Blenkin- 
sop? How d’ye do? 

BLENKINSOP. And Sir Patrick, too! [Sir Patrick grunts). 

RIDGEON. Youve met Walpole, of course? 

WALPOLE. How d’ye do? 

BLENKINSOP. It’s the first time Ive had that honor. In 
my poor little practice there are no chances of meeting you 
great men. I know nobody but the St Anne’s men of my 
own day. [Zo Ridgeon] And so youre Sir Colenso. How 
does it feel? 

r1ipGEON. Foolish at first. Dont take any notice of it. 

BLENKiNsOP. I’m ashamed to say I havnt a notion what 
your great discovery is; but I congratulate you all the same 
for the sake of old times. 

B. B. [shocked] But, my dear Blenkinsop, you used to be 
rather keen on science. 

BLENKinsop. Ah, I used to be a lot of things. I used to 
have two or three decent suits of clothes, and flannels to 


22 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


go up the river on Sundays. Look at me now: this is my 
best; and it must last til Christmas. What can I do? 
Ive never opened a book since I was qualified thirty years 
ago. I used to read the medical papers at first; but you 
know how soon a man drops that; besides, I cant afford 
them; and what are they after all but trade papers, full of 
advertisements? Ive forgotten all my science: whats the 
use of my pretending I havnt? But I have great experi- 
ence: clinical experience; and bedside experience is the 
main thing, isnt it? 

B. B. No doubt; always provided, mind you, that you 
have a sound scientific theory to correlate your observa- 
tions at the bedside. Mere experience by itself is nothing. 
If I take my dog to the bedside with me, he sees what I 
see. But he learns nothing from it. Why? Because he’s 
not a scientific dog. 

WALPOLE. It amuses me to hear you physicians and 
general practitioners talking about clinical experience. 
What do you see at the bedside but the outside of the 
patient? Well: it isnt his outside thats wrong, except 
perhaps in skin cases. What you want is a daily familiarity 
with people’s insides; and that you can only get at the 
operating table. I know what I’m talking about: Ive been 
a surgeon and a consultant for twenty years; and Ive 
never known a general practitioner right in his diagnosis 
yet. Bring them a perfectly simple case; and they diag- 
nose cancer, and arthritis, and appendicitis, and every other 
itis, when any really experienced surgeon can see that it’s 
a plain case of blood-poisoning. 

BLENKiNSOP. Ah, it’s easy for you gentlemen to talk; but 
what would you say if you had my practice? Except for 
the workmen’s clubs, my patients are all clerks and shop- 
men. They darent be ill: they cant afford it. And when 
they break down, what can I do for them? You can send 
your people to St Moritz or to Egypt, or recommend horse 
exercise or motoring or champagne jelly or complete 
change and rest for six months. J might as well order my 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 2? 


people a slice of the moon. And the worst of it is, I’m too 
poor to keep well myself on the cooking I have to put up 
with. Ive such a wretched digestion; and I look it. How 
am I to inspire confidence? [He sits disconsolately on the 
couch). 

ripGEoN [restless/y] Dont, Blenkinsop: it’s too painful. 
The most tragic thing in the world is a sick doctor. 

WALPOLE. Yes, by George: its like a bald-headed man 
trying to sell a hair restorer. Thank God I’m a surgeon ! 

B. B. [sanni/y] I am never sick. Never had a day’s ill- 
ness in my life. Thats what enables me to sympathize with 
my patients. 

WALPOLE [interested] What! youre never ill! 

B. B. Never. 

WALPOLE. Thats interesting. I believe you have no nuci- 
form sac. If you ever do fee] at all queer, I should very 
much like to have a look. 

B. B. Thank you, my dear fellow; but I’m too busy 
just now. 

RIDGEON. I was just telling them when you came in, 
Blenkinsop, that I have worked myself out of sorts. 

BLENKINSOP. Well, it seems presumptuous of me to offer 
a prescription to a great man like you; but still I have 
great experience; and if I might recommend a pound of . 
ripe greengages every day half an hour before lunch, I’m 
sure youd find a benefit. Theyre very cheap. 

ripGEON. What do you say to that, B. B.? 

B. B. [excouragingly] Very sensible, Blenkinsop: very 
sensible indeed. I’m delighted to see that you disapprove ot 
drugs. 

SIR PATRICK [grunts]! 

B. B. [arch/y] Aba! Haha! Did I hear from the fireside 
armchair the bow-wow of the old school defending its drugs? 
Ah, believe me, Paddy, the world would be healthier if 
every chemist’s shop in England were demolished. Look at 
the papers! full of scandalous advertisements of patent medi- 
cines! a huge commercial system of quackery and poison, 


i The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


Well, whose fault is it? Ours. I say, ours. We set the 
example. We spread the superstition. We taught the 
people to believe in bottles of doctor’s stuff; and now 
they buy it at the stores instead of consulting a medical 
man. 

WaLPOLE. Quite true. Ive not prescribed a drug for the 
last fifteen years. 

B. B. Drugs can only repress symptoms: they cannot 
eradicate disease. The true remedy for all diseases is 
Nature’s remedy. Nature and Science are at one, Sir 
Patrick, believe me; though you were taught differently. 
Nature has provided, in the white corpuscles as you 
call them—in the phagocytes as we call them—a 
natural means of devouring and destroying all disease 
germs. ‘There is at bottom only one genuinely scientific 
treatment for all diseases, and that is to stimulate the 
phagocytes. Stimulate the phagocytes. Drugs are a delu- 
sion. Find the germ of the disease; prepare from it a 
suitable anti-toxin; inject it three times a day quarter of 
an hour before meals; and what is the result? The phago- 
cytes are stimulated; they devour the disease; and the 
patient recovers—unless, of course, he’s too far gone. That, 
I take it, is the essence of Ridgeon’s discovery. 

sin PaTRICK [dreamily] As I sit here, [ seem to hear my 
poor old father talking again. 

B. B. [rising in incredulous amazement) Your father! But, 
Lord bless my soul, Paddy, your father must have been an 
older man than you. 

sik PaTRicK. Word for word almost, he said what you 
say. No more drugs. Nothing but inoculation. 

B. B. [almost contemptuously] Inoculation! Do you mean 
smallpox inoculation? 

sin PATRICK. Yes. In the privacy of our family circle, 
sir, my father used to declare his belief that smallpox in- 
oculation was good, not only for smallpox, but for all 
fevers. 

B. B. [suddenly rising to the new idea with immense interest 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 25 


and excitement) What! Ridgeon: did you hear that? Sir 
Patrick: I am more struck by what you have just told me 
than I can well express. Your father, sir, anticipated a dis- 
covery of my own. Listen, Walpole. Blenkinsop: attend 
one moment. You will all be intensely interested in this. I 
was put on the track by accident. I had a typhoid case and 
a tetanus case side by side in the hospital: a beadle and a 
city missionary. Think of what that meant for them, poor 
fellows! Can a beadle be dignified with typhoid? Can a 
missionary be eloquent with lockjaw? No. NO. Well, I got 
some typhoid anti-toxin from Ridgeon and a tube of Mul- 
dooley’santi-tetanusserum. Butthe missionary jerkedall my 
things off the table in one of his paroxysms; and in replac- 
ing them I put Ridgeon’s tube where Muldooley’s ought to 
have been. The consequence was that I inoculated the 
typhoid case for tetanus and the tetanus case for typhoid. 
[Zte doctors look greatly concerned. B. B., undamped, smiles 
triumphantly|. Well, they recovered. THEY RECOVERED. Ex- 
cept for a touch of St Vitus’s dance the missionary’s as 
well to-day as ever; and the beadle’s ten times the man 
he was. 

BLENKINSOP, Ive known things like that happen. They 
cant be explained. 

B. B. [severely] Blenkinsop: there is nothing that 
cannot be explained by science. What did I do? Did I 
fold my hands helplessly and say that the case could not 
be explained? By no means. I sat down and used my 
brains. I thought the case out on scientific principles. 
I asked myself why didnt the missionary die of typhoid on 
top of tetanus, and the beadle of tetanus on top of typhoid? 
Theres a problem for you, Ridgeon. Think, Sir Patrick. 
Reflect, Blenkinsop. Look at it without prejudice, Walpole. 
What is the real work of the anti-toxin? Simply to stimu- 
latethe phagocytes. Verywell. But so long as you stimulate 
the phagocytes, what does it matter which particular sort 
of serum you use for the purpose? Haha! Eh? Do you 
see? Do you grasp it? Ever since that Ive used all sorts 


26 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


of anti-toxins absolutely indiscriminately, with perfectly 
satisfactory results. I inoculated the little prince with 
your stuff, Ridgeon, because I wanted to give you a lift ; 
but two years ago I tried the experiment of treating a 
scarlet fever case with a sample of hydrophobia serum from 
the Pasteur Institute, and it answered capitally. It stimu- 
lated the phagocytes; and the phagocytes did the rest. 
That is why Sir Patrick’s father found that inoculation 
cured all fevers. It stimulated the phagocytes. [He throws 
himself into his chair, exhausted with the triumph of his demon- 
stration, and beams magnificently on them). 

EMMY [looking in] Mr Walpole: your motor’s come 
for you; and it’s frightening Sir Patrick’s horses ; so come 
along quick. 

WALPOLE [rising] Good-bye, Ridgeon. 

RIDGEON. Good-bye ; and many thanks, 

B. B. You see my point, Walpole? 

EMMY. He cant wait, Sir Ralph. The carriage will be 
into the area if he dont come. 

WaLPOLeE I’m coming. [To B. B.] Theres nothing in 
your point: phagocytosis is pure rot: the cases are all 
blood-poisoning ; and the knife is the real remedy. Bye- 
bye, Sir Paddy. Happy to have met you, Mr. Blenkinsop. 
Now, Emmy. [He goes out, followed by Emmy). 

B. B. [sad/y] Walpole has no intellect. A mere surgeon. 
Wonderful operator; but, after all, what is operating? 
Only manual labor. Brain — Brain remains master of 
the situation. The nuciform sac is utter nonsense: theres 
no such organ. It’s a mere accidental kink in the mem- 
brane, occurring in perhaps two-and-a-half per cent of 
the population. Of course I’m glad for Walpole’s sake 
that the operation is fashionable; for he’s a dear good 
fellow; and after all, as I always tell people, the operation 
will do them no harm: indeed, Ive known the nervous 
shake-up and the fortnight in bed do people a lot of good 
after a hard London season ; but still it’s a shocking fraud. 
[Rising] Well, I must be toddling. Good-bye, Paddy [Sir 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma on 


Patrick grunts] good-bye, good-bye. Good-bye, my dear 
Blenkinsop, good-bye! Good-bye, Ridgeon. Dont fret 
about your héalth: you know what to do: if your liver 
is sluggish, a little mercury never does any harm. If you 
feel restless, try bromide. If that doesnt answer, a stimu-’ 
lant, you know: a little phosphorus and strychnine. If 
you cant sleep, trional, trional, trion— 

sig PATRICK [d7i/y] But no drugs, Colly, remember that. 

B. B. [firmly] Certainly not. Quite right, Sir Patrick. 
As temporary expedicnts, of course; but as treatment, no, 
no. Keep away from the chemist’s shop, my dear Ridgeon, 
whatever you do. 

RIDGEON [going to the door with him] I will. And thank 
you for the knighthood. Good-bye. 

B. B. [stopping at the door, with the beam in his eye twinkling 
4@ little] By the way, who’s your patient? 

RIDGEON. Who? 

B. B. Downstairs. Charming woman. Tuberculous hus- 
band. 

RIDGEON. Is she there still? 

EMMY [/soking in] Come on, Sir Ralph: your wife’s 
waiting in the carriage. 

B. B. [suddenly sobered| Oh! Good-bye. [He goes out almost 
precipitately |. 

RIpGEON. Emmy: is that woman there still? If so, tell 
her once for all that I cant and wont see her. Do you 
hear? 

EMMY. Oh, she aint in a hurry: she doesnt mind how 
long she waits. [Sse goes out]. 

BLENKINSoP. I must be off, too: every half-hour I spend 
away from my work costs me eighteenpence. Good-bye, 
Sir Patrick. 

sik PATRICK. Good-bye. Good-bye. 

RipGEON. Come to lunch with me some day this week. 

BLENKINSOP. I cant afford it, dear boy; and it would 
put me off my own food for a week. Thank you all the 
same. 


28 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


RIDGEON [ameasy at Blenkinsop’s poverty] Can I do nothing 
for you? 

BLENKINSOP. Well, if you have an old frock-coat to spare ? 
you see what would be an old one for you would be a new 
one for me; so remember me the next time you turn out 
your wardrobe. Good-bye. [He Aurries out]. 

RIDGEON [/ooking after him] Poor chap! [Turning to Sir 
Patrick] So thats why they made me a knight! And thats 
the medical profession! 

sin paATRICK. And a very good profession, too, my lad. 
When you know as much as I know of the ignorance and 
superstition of the patients, youll wonder that we’re half 
as good as we are. 
‘~ ripceon. We’re not a profession: we’re a conspiracy. 

sik PATRICK. All professions are conspiracies against the 
laity. And we cant all be geniuses like you. Every fool can 
get ill; but every fool cant be a good doctor: there are not 
enough good ones to go round. And for all you know, Bloom- 
field Bonington kills less people than you do. 

RIDGEON. Oh, very likely. But he really ought to know 
the difference between a vaccine and an anti-toxin. Stimu- 
late the phagocytes! The vaccine doesnt affect the phago- 
cytes at all. He’s all wrong: hopelessly, dangerously 
wrong. To put a tube of serum into his hands is murder: 
simple murder. 

emmy [returning] Now, Sir Patrick. How long more 
are you going to keep them horses standing in the draught? 

str PATRICK. Whats that to you, you old catamaran? 

EMMY. Come, come, now! none of your temper to me. 
And it’s time for Colly to get to his work. 

r1DGEON. Behave yourself, Emmy. Get out. 

emmy. Oh, I learnt how to behave myself before I 
learnt you to do it. I know what doctors are: sitting 
talking together about themselves when they ought to be 
with their poor patients. And I know what horses are, 
Sir Patrick. I was brought up in the country. Now be 
good; and come along. 


| 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 29 


siR PATRICK [rising] Very well, very well, very well. 
Good-bye, Colly. [He pats Ridgeon on the shoulder and goes 
out, turning for a moment at the door to look meditatively at 
Emmy and say, with grave conviction] You are an ugly old 
devil, and no mistake. 

EMMY [Aighly indignant, calling after him] Youre no beauty 
yourself. [To Ridgeon, much fustered| Theyve no manners: 
they think they can say what they like to me; and you 
set them on, you do. I’ll teach them their places. Here 
now: are you going to see that poor thing or are you 
not? 

ripGcEoN. I tell you for the fiftieth time I wont see any- 
body. Send her away. 

EmMy. Oh, I’m tired of being told to send her away. 
What good will that do her? 

ripGEon. Must I get angry with you, Emmy? 

EMMY [coaxing] Come now: just see her for a minute to 
please me: theres a good boy. She’s given me half-a-crown. 
She thinks it’s life and death to her husband for her to 
see you. 

R1IDGEON. Values her husband’s life at half-a-crown! 

EMMY. Well, it’s all she can afford, poor lamb. Them 
others think nothing of half-a-sovereign just to talk about 
themselves to you, the sluts! Besides, she’ll put you in a 
good temper for the day, because it’s a good deed to see 
her; and she’s the sort that gets round you. 

ripGEoN. Well, she hasnt done so badly. For half-a- 
crown she’s had a consultation with Sir Ralph Bloomfield 
Bonington and Cutler Walpole. Thats six guineas’ worth 
to start with. I dare say she’s consulted Blenkinsop too: 
thats another eighteenpence. 

EMMY. Then youll see her for me, wont you? 

RipGEon. Oh, send her up and be hanged. [£my trots 
out, satisfied. Ridgeon calls] Redpenny! 

REDPENNY [appearing at the door| What is it? 

RIDGEON. Theres a patient coming up. If she hasnt gone 
in five minutes, come in with an urgent call from the 


30 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


hospital for me. You understand: she’s to have a strong 
hint to go. 

ReDPENNY. Right O! [He vanishes]. 

Ridgeon goes to the glass, and arranges his tiea iitth. 

EMMY [announcing] Mrs Doobidad [Ridgeon leaves the glass 
and goes to the writing-table}. 

The lady comes in. Emmy goes out and shuts the door. 
Ridgeon, who has put on an impenetrable and rather distant 
professional manner, turns to the lady, and invites her, by a 
gesture, to sit down on the couch. 

Mrs Dubedat is beyond all demur an arrestingly good-looking 
young woman. She has something of the grace and romance of a 
wild creature, with a good deal of the elegance and dignity of a 
fine lady. Ridgeon, who is extremely susceptible to the beauty 
of women, instinctively assumes the defensive at once, and hardens 
his manner still more. He has an impression that she is very 
well dressed; but she has a figure on which any dress would 
look well, and carries herself with the unaffected distinction of a 
woman who has never in her life suffered from those doubts and 
fears as to her social position which spoil the manners of most 
middling people. She is tall, slender, and strong; has dark hair, 
dressed so as to look like hair and not lke a bird's nest or a 
pantaloon’s wig (fashion wavering just then between these two | 
models); has unexpectedly narrow, subtle, dark-fringed eyes that — 
alter her expression disturbingly when she is excited and flashes 
them wide open; is softly impetuous in her specch and swift in 
her movements; and is just now in mortal anxiety. She carries 
4 portfolio. 

mrs DuBEDAT [in low urgent tones] Doctor— 

RiDGEON [cart/y] Wait. Before you begin, let me tell 
you at once that I can do nothing for you. My hands are 
full. I sent you that message by my old servant, You 
would not take that answer. 

MRs DUBEDAT. How could I? 

ripGzoNn. You bribed her. 

MRS DUBEDAT. I— 

‘RIDGEON. That doesnt matter, She coaxed me to see you. 





Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 31 


Well, you must take it from me now that with all the good 
will in the world, I cannot undertake another case. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Doctor: you must save my husband. You 
must. When I explain to you, you will see that you must. 
It is not an ordinary case, not like any other case. He is 
not like anybody else in the world : oh, believe me, he is 
not. I can prove it to you: [figering her portfolio] I have 
brought some things to shew you. And you can save him: 
the papers say you can. 

RIDGEON. Whats the matter? Tuberculosis? 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes. His left lung— 

RIDGEON. Yes: you neednt tell me about that. 

MRS DUBEDAT. You can cure him, if only you will. It 
is true that you can, isntit? [Ix great distress] Oh, tell me, 
please. 

RIDGEON [warningly] You are going to be quiet and self- 
possessed, arnt you? 

Mrs DuBEDAT. Yes. I beg yourpardon. I know shouldnt 
—(Giving way again] Oh, please, say that you can; and 
then I shall be all right. 

RIDGEON [Aufily] I am not a curemonger: if you want 
cures, you must go to the people who sellthem. [Recover- 
ing himself, ashamed of the tone of his own voice} But I have 
at the hospital ten tuberculous patients whose lives I 
believe I can save. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Thank God ! 

ripGeon. Wait a moment. Try to think of those ten 
patients as ten shipwrecked men on a raft—a raft that is 
barely large enough to save them—that will not support 
one more. Another head bobs up through the waves at 
the side. Another man begs to be taken aboard. He im- 
plores the captain of the raft to save him. But the captain 
can only do that by pushing one of his ten off the raft and 
drowning him to make room for the new comer. That is 
what you are asking me to do. 

MRS DUBEDAT. But how can that be? I dont understand. 
Surely— 


32 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


ripGeon. You must take my word for it that it is so. 
My laboratory, my staff, and myself are working at full 
pressure. We are doing our utmost. The treatment is a 
new one. It takes time, means, and skill; and there is not 
enough for another case. Our ten cases are already chosen 
cases. Do you understand what I mean by chosen? 

MRS DUBEDAT. Chosen. No: I cant understand. 

RIDGEON [sferm/y] You must understand. Youve got to 
understand and to face it. In every single one of those ten 
cases I have had to consider, not only whether the man 
could be saved, but whether he was worth saving. There 
were fifty cases to choose from ; and forty had to be con- 
demned to death. Some of the forty had young wives and 
helpless children. If the hardness of their cases could have 
saved them they would have been saved ten times over. 
Ive no doubt your case is a hard one: I can see the tears 
in your eyes [she hastily wipes her eyes|: I know that you 
have a torrent of entreaties ready for me the moment I 
stop speaking; but it’s no use. You must go to another 
doctor. 

‘MRS DUBEDAT. But can you give me the name of another 
doctor who understands your secret? 

RIDGEON. I have no secret: I am not a quack. 

Mrs puBEpAT. I beg your pardon: I didnt mean to say 
anything wrong. I dont understand how to speak to you. 
Oh, pray dont be offended. 

r1pGEON [again a littl ashamed| There! there! never 
mind, [He relaxes and sits down], After all, 'm talking 
nonsense: I daresay I am a quack, a quack with a qualifi- 
cation. But my discovery is not patented. 

MRs DUBEDAT. Then can any doctor cure my husband? 
. Oh, why dont they do it? I have tried so many: I have 
spent so much. If only you would give me the name of 
another doctor. 

RIDGEON. Every man in this street is a doctor. But out- 
side myself and the handful of men I am training at St 
Anne’s, there is nobody as yet who has mastered the 


| 
| 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 33 


opsonin treatment. And we are full up? I’m sorry; but 
that is all I can say. [Rising] Good morning.. 

MRS DUBEDAT [suddenly and desperately taking some draw- 
ings from her portfolio] Doctor: look at these. You under- 
stand drawings: you have good ones in your waiting- 
room. Look at them. They are his work. 

R1DGEON. It’s no use my looking. [He /ooks, all the same] 
Hallo! [He takes one to the window and studies it). Yes: 
this is the real thing. Yes, yes. [He looks at another and 
returns to her]. These are very clever. Theyre unfinished, 
arnt they? 

MRS DUBEDAT. He gets tired so soon. But you see, dont 
you, what a genius he is? You see that he is worth 
saving. Oh, doctor, I married him just to help him to 
begin: I had money enough to tide him over the hard 
years at the beginning—to enable him to follow his inspira- 


’ tion until his genius was recognized. And I was useful 


to him as a model: his drawings of me sold quite quickly. 

RIDGEON. Have you got one? 

MRs DuBEDAT [ producing another] Only this one. It was 
the first. 

RIDGEON [devouring it with bis eyes] Thats a wonderful 
drawing. Why is it called Jennifer? 

MRs DuBEDAT. My name is Jennifer. 

RIDGEON. A strange name. 

mrs buBeDat. Not in Cornwall. Iam Cornish. It’s only 
what you call Guinevere. 

RIDGEON [repeating the names with a certain pleasure in them] 
Guinevere. Jennifer. [Looking again at the drawing] Yes: 
it’s really a wonderful drawing. Excuse me; but may I ask 
is it for sale? I'll buy it. 

MRs DuBEDAT. Oh, take it. It’s my own: he gave it to me. 
Take it. Take them all. Take everything; ask anything; 
but save him. You can: you will: you must. 

REDPENNY [entering with every sign of alarm] Theyve just 
telephoned from the hospital that youre to come instantly 
—a patient on the point of death. The carriage is waiting. 

D 


34. The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


R1pGEON [iztolerantly] Oh, nonsense: get out. [Greatlh 
annoyed| What do you mean by interrupting me like 
this? 

REDPENNY. But— 

ripceon. Chut! cant you see I’m engaged? Be off. 

Redpenny, bewildered, vanishes. 

MRS DUDEBAT [7ésixg] Doctor: one instant only before 
you go— 

ripcEon. Sit down. It’s nothing. 

Mrs DUBEDAT. But the patient. He said he was dying. 

ripGeon. Oh, he’s dead by this time. Never mind. 
Sit down. 

MRS DUBEDAT [sitting dotun and breaking down] Oh, you 
none of you care. You see people die every day. 

RIDGEON [petting fer] Nonsense! it’s nothing: I told 
him to come in and say that. I thought I should want to 
get rid of you. 

mrs puBepaT [shocked at the falsehood] Oh! 

ripcEoN [cowtinuing] Dont look so bewildered: theres 
nobody dying. ° 

mrs puBEDAT. My husband is. 

* pipceon [pulling himself together| Ah, yes: I had for- 
gotten your husband. Mrs Dubedat: you are asking me 
to do a very serious thing? c 

MRS DUBEDAT. I am asking you to save the life of a great 
man. 

RIDGEON. You are asking me to kill another man for . 
his sake; for as surely as I undertake another case, I shall 
have to hand back one of the old ones to the ordinary 
treatment. Weli, I dont shrink from that. I have had to 
do it before; and I will do it again if you can convince 
me that his life is more important than the worst life I am 
now saving. But you must convince me first. 

Mrs puBEDAT. He made those drawings; and they are 
not the best—nothing like the best; only I did not bring 
the really best: so few people like them. He is twenty- — 
three: his whole life is before him. Wont you let me 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 35 


bring him to you? wont you speak to him? wont you see 
for yourself? 

ripGEON. Is he well enough to come toa dinner at the 
Star and Garter at Richmond? 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh yes. Why? 

RIDGEON. I'l] tell you. I am inviting all my old friends 
to adinner to celebrate my knighthood—youve seen about 
it in the papers, havnt you? 

MRs DuBEDaT. Yes, oh yes, That was how I found out 
about you. 

ripGEON. It will be a doctors’ dinner; and it was to 
have been a bachelors’ dinner. I’m a bachelor. Now if 
you will entertain for me, and bring your husband, he will 
meet me; and he will meet some of the most eminent 
men in my profession: Sir Patrick Cullen, Sir Ralph 
Bloomfield Bonington, Cutler Walpole, and others. I can 
put the case to them; and your husband will have to stand 
or fall by what we think of him. Will you come? 

MRS DUBECAT. Yes, of course I will come. Oh, thank 
you, thank you. And may I bring some of his drawings— 
the really good ones? 

ripGEON. Yes. I will let you know the date in the 
course of to-morrow. Leave me your address. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Thank you again and again. You have 
made me so happy: I know you will admire him and like 
him. This is my address. [Ste gives him her card]. 

ripGEON. ‘Thank you. [He rings]. 

MRs DuBEDaT [embarrassed |] May I—is there—should 1— 
I mean—{ she blushes and stops in confusion]. 

RiDGEON. Whats the matter? 

MRS DUBEDaT. Your fee for this consultation? 

ripGEon. Oh, I forgot that. Shall we say a beautiful 
drawing of his favorite model for the whole treatment, 
including the’cure? 

MRs DUBEDAT. You are very generous. Thank you. I 
know you will cure him. Gocd-bye. 

ripczon. I will. Good-bye. [They shake hands}. By the 


36 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


way, you know, dont you, that tuberculosis is catching. 
You take every precaution, I hope. 

MRs DuBEDAT. I am not likely to forget it. They treat 
-us like lepers at the hotels, 

EMMY [at the door] Well, deary: have you got round 
him? 

RipGzEoN. Yes. Attend tothe door and hold your tongue. 

EMMY. Thats a good boy. [She goes out with Mrs 
Dubedat). 

RIDGEON [alone] Consultation free. Cure guaranteed 
(He heaves a great sigh). 


ACT Il 


After dinner on the terrace at the Star and Garter, Rich- 
mond, Cloudless summer night ; nothing disturbs the stillness 
except from time to time the long trajectory of a distant train 
and the measured clucking of oars coming up from the Thames 
in the valley below, The dinner is over; and three of the eight 
chairs are empty. Sir Patrick, with his back to the view, is at 
the head of the square table with Ridgeon. The two chairs 
opposite them are empty. On their right come, first, a vacant 
chair, and then one very fully occupied by B. B., who basks 
blissfully in the moonbeams. On their lefi, Schutzmacher and 
Walpole. The entrance to the hotel is on their right, behind 
B.B. The five men are silently enjoying their coffee and cigarets, 
Sull of food, and not altogether void of wine. 

Mrs Dubedat, wrapped up for departure, comesin. They rise, 
except Sir Patrick ; but she takes one of the vacant places at the 
foot of the table, next B. B.; and they sit down again. 


Mrs DuBEDAT [as s/e enters] Louis will be here presently. 
He is shewing Dr Blenkinsop how to work the telephone. 
[She sits]. Oh, I am so sorry we have to go. It seems such 
a shame, this beautiful night. And we have enjoyed our- 
selves so much. 

ripcEoN. I dont believe another half-hour would do Mr 
Dubedat a bit of harm. 

SIR ‘PATRICK. Come now, Colly, come! come! none of 


37 


38 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IT 


that..You take your man home, Mrs Dubedat; and get 
him to bed before eleven. 

B.B. Yes, yes. Bed before eleven. Quite right, quite 
right. Sorry to lose you, my dear lady; but Sir Patrick’s 
orders are the laws of —er—of Tyre and Sidon. 

waLPoLe. Let me take you home in my motor. 

str PATRICK. No. You ought to be ashamed of yourself, 
Walpole. Your motor will take Mr and Mrs Dubedat to 
the station, and quite far enough too for an open carriage 
at night. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh, I am sure the train is best. 

ripGeoN. Well, Mrs Dubedat, we have hada most enjoy- 
able evening. 

WALPOLE. Most enjoyable. 
B. B, {  elighenal Charming. Unforgettable. 

MRS DUBEDAT [with a touch of shy anxiety) What did you 
think of Louis? Or am I wrong to ask? 

ripGeon. Wrong! Why, we are all charmed with 
him. 

WALPOLE. Delighted. 

B. 8B. Most happy to have met him. A privilege, a real 
privilege. 

SIR PATRICK [grunts] ! 

MRS DuUBEDAT [guick/y] Sir Patrick: are you uneasy about 
him? 

sin PATRICK [discreetly] I admire his drawings greatly, 
maam. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes; but I meant— 

riDGEON. You shall go away quite happy. Hle’s worth 
saving. He must and shall be saved. 

Mrs Dubedat rises and gasps with delight, relief, and grati- 
tude. They all rise except Sir Patrick and Schutzmacher, and 
come reassuringly to her. 

B. B. Certainly, cer-tainly. 

waLpoLe. Theres no real difficulty, if only you know 
what to do. 

MRs DUBEDAT. Oh, how can I ever thank you! From this 


Act II The Doctor’s Dilemma 39 


night I can begin to be happy at last. You dont know what 
I feel. 

She sits down in tears. They crowd about her to console her. 

B. B. My dear lady: come come! come come! [very 
persuasively] come come! 

WALPOLE. Dont mind us. Have a good cry. 

RinGeoN. No: dont cry. Your husband had better not 
know that weve been talking about him. 

MRS DUBEDAT [guickly pulling herself together | No, of course 
not. Please dont mind me. What a glorious thing it must 
be to be a doctor! [They augh]. Dont laugh. You dont 
know what youve done for me. I never knew un:il now 
how deadly afraid I was-—-how I had come to dread the 
worst. I never dared let myself know. But now the relief 
has come: now I know. 

Louis Dubedat comes from the hotel, in his overcoat, his throat 
wrapped ina shawl, He isa slim young man of 23, physically still 
a stripling,and pretty, though not effeminate. He has turquoise 
blue eyes, and a trick of looking you straight in the face with them, 
which, combined with a frank smile, is very engaging. Although 
he is all nerves, and very observant and quick of apprehension, he 
is not in the least shy. He is younger than Jennifer; but he 
patronizes her as a matter of course. The doctors do not put him 
out in the least: neither Sir Patrick’s years nor Bloomfield 
Bonington’s majesty have the smallest apparent effect on him: he 
is as natural as a cat: he moves among men as most men move 
among things, though he is intentionally making himself agreeable 
to them on this occasion. Like all people who can be depended on to 
take care of themselves, he is welcome company; and his artist's 
power of appealing to the imagination gains bim credit for all sorts 
of qualities and powers, whether be possesses them or not. 

touts [paling on his gloves bebind Ridgeon’s chair) Now, 
Jinny-Gwinny: the motor has come round. 

RipGeon. Why do you let him spoil your beautiful name 
like that, Mrs Dubedat? 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh, on grand occasions I am Jennifer. 

B. B. You are a bachelor: you do not understand these 


40 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


things, Ridgeon. Lock at me [T4ey ook]. T also have two 
names. In momen‘¢s of domestic worry, I am simple Ralph. 
When the sun snines in the home, I am Beedle-Deedle- 
Dumkins. Such is married life! Mr Dubedat: may I 
ask you to do me a favor before you go. Will you sign 
your name to this menu card, under the sketch you have 
made of me? 

WALPOLE. Yes; and mine too, if you will be so good. 

Louis. Certainly. [He sits down and signs the cards). 

MRS DUBEDAT. Wont you sign Dr Schutzmacher’s for him, 
Louis? 

touts. I dent think Dr Schutzmacher is pleased with his 
portrait. I’li tear it up. [He reaches across the table for Schutz- 
macher’s menu card, and is about to tear it. Schutzmacher makes 
no sign]. 

ripGeoN. No, no: if Loony doesnt want it, I do. 

Louis. I'll sign it for you with pleasure. [He signs 
and hands it to Ridgeon]. Ive just been making a little note 
of the river to-night: it will work up into something good 
[Ae shews a pocket sketch-bo0k]. I think Pll call it the Silver 
Danube. 

s. B. Ah, charming, charming. 

WALPOLE. Very sweet. Youre a nailer at pastel. 

Louis coughs, first out of modesty, then from tuberculosis. 

sIR PATRICK. Now then, Mr Dubedat: youve had 
enough of the night air. Take him home, maam. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes. Come, Louis. 

RIDGEON. Never fear. Never mind. I’ll make that cough 
all right. 

sp. B. We will stimulate the phagocytes. [With tender 
effusion, shaking her hand| Good-night, Mrs Dubedat. 
Good-night. Good-night. 

waLpote. If the phagocytes fail, come to me. I'll put 
you right. 

Lous. Good-night, Sir Patrick. Happy to have met you. 

sin PATRICK. Night [4a/fa grunt]. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Good-night, Sir Patrick. 


Act II The Doctor’s Dilemma 4! 


sIR PATRICK. Cover yourself well up. Dont think your 
lungs are made of iron because theyre better than his. 
Good-night. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Thank you. Thank you. Nothing hurts 
me. Good-night. 

Louis goes out through the hotel without noticing Schutz- 
macher. Mrs Dubedat hesitates, then bows to him. Schutz- 
macher rises dnd bows formally, German fashion. She goes out, 
attended by Ridgeon. The rest resume their seats, ruminating 
or smoking quietly. 

B. B. [Aarmoniously| Dee-lightful couple! Charming 
woman! Gifted lad! Remarkable talent! Graceful out- 
lines! Perfect evening! Great success! Interesting case! 
Glorious night! Exquisite scenery! Capital dinner! 
Stimulating conversation! Restful outing! Good wine! 
Happy ending! Touching gratitude! Lucky Ridgeon— 

RIDGEON [returning] Whats that? Calling me, B. B.? [He 
goes back to his seat next Sir Patrick]. 

B. B. No, no.» Only congratulating you on a most suc- 
cessful evening! Enchanting woman! Thorough breeding! 
Gentle nature! Refined— 

Blenkinsop comes from the hotel and takes the empty chair 
next Ridgeon. 

BLENKINSOP. I’m so sorry to have left you like this, 
Ridgeon ; but it was a telephone message from the police. 
Theyve found half a milkman at our level crossing with a 
prescription of mine in its pocket. Wheres Mr Dubedat? 

RIDGEON. Gone. 

BLENKINSOP [rising, very pale} Gone! 

RIDGEON. Just this moment— 

BLENK-Nsop. Perhaps I could overtake him— [4e rushes 
into the hotel). 

waLPoLe [calling after him] He’s in the motor, man, miles 
off. You cant— [giving it up]. No use. 

ripGEon. Theyre really very nice people. I confess I was 
afraid the husband would turn out an appalling bounder. 
But he’s almost as charming in his way as she is in hers. 


42 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


And theres no mistake about his being a genius. It’s some- 
thing to have got a case really worth saving. Somebody else 
wil have to go; but at all events it will be easy to find a 
worse man. 

sR PATRICK. How do you know? 

Ripceon, Come now, Sir Paddy, no growling. Haxe 
something more to drink. 

sin Parrick. No, thank you. 

WALPOLE. Do you see anything wrong with Dubedat, 
Dy Dee 

B. B. Oh, a charming young fellow. Besides, after all, 
what could be wrong with him? Look at him. What 
could be wrong with him? 

SIR PATRICK. There are two things that can be wrong 
with any man. One of them is a cheque. The other is 2 
woman, Until you know that a man’s sound on these two 
points, you know nothing about him. 

B. B. Ah, cynic, cynic! 

WALPOLE. He’s all right as to the cheque, for a while at 
all events. He talked to me quite frankly before dinner 
as to the pressure of money difficulties on an artist. He 
says he has no vices and is very economical, but that theres 
one extravagance he cant afford and yet cant resist; 
and that is dressing his wife prettily. So 1 said, bang 
plump out, “Let me lend you twenty pounds, and pay 
me when your ship comes home.” He was really very nice 
about it. He took it like a man; and it was a pleasure to 
see how happy it made him, poor chap. 

B. B. [who has listened to Walpole with growing perturbation| 
But—but—but—when was this, may I ask? 

waLpoLe. When I joined you that time down by the 
river. 

z. B. But, my dear Walpole, he had just borrowed ten 
pounds from me. 

WALPOLE. What! 

SIR PATRICK [gruzts] ! 

B. B. [/xdulgently] Well, well, it was really hardly borrow- 


Act II The Doctor’s Dilemma 43 


ing; for he said heaven only knew when he could pay me. 
I couldnt refuse. It appears that Mrs Dubedat has taken 
a sort of fancy to me— 

WALPOLE [quickly] No: it was to me. 

B. B, Certainly not. Your name was never mentioned 
between us. He is so wrapped up in his work that he has 
to leave her a good deal alone; and the poor innocent 
young fellow-—he has of course no idea of my position or 
how busy I am—actually wanted me to call occasionally 
and talk to her. 

WALPOLE. Exactly what he said to me! 

B. B. Pooh! Pooh pooh! Really, I must say. [Much dis- 
turbed, he rises and goes up to the Lalustrade, contemplating the 
landscape vexedly). 

waLPoLe. Look here, Ridgeon! this is beginning to look 
serious, 

Blenkinsop, very anxicus and wretched, but trying to look 
unconcerntéa, comes back. 

RIDGEON. Well, did you catch him? 

BLENKINSOP. No, Excuse my running away like that. 
[He sits down at the foot of the table, next Bloomfield Boning- 
ton’s chair). 

waLpote. Anything the matter? 

BLENKINSOP. Oh no. A trifle—something ridiculous. It 
cant be helped. Never mind. 

Ripccon. Was it anything about Dubedat? 

BLENKINSOP [a/most breaking down] 1 ought to keep it to 
myself, I know. I cant tell you, Ridgeon, how ashamed 
1 am of dragging my miserable poverty to your dinner 
after all your kindness. It’s not that you wont ask me 
again; but it’s so humiliating. And I did so look forward 
to one evening in my dress clothes (theyre still present- 
able, you see) with all my troubles left behind, just like old 
times. 

ripGeon. But what has happened? 

BLENKINSOP. Qh, nothing. It’s too ridiculous. I had just 
scraped up four shillings for this little outing; and it cost 


44 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


me one-and-fourpence to get here. Well, Dubedat asked 
me to lend him half-a-crown to tip the chambermaid of 
the room his wife left her wraps in, and for the cloak- 
room. He said he only wanted it for five minutes, as she 
had his purse. So of course I lent it to him. And he’s 
forgotten to pay me. I’ve just tuppence to get back with. 

RIDGEON. Oh, never mind that— 

BLENKINSOP [stopping fim resolutely} No: I know what 
youre going to say; but I wont take it. Ive never 
borrowed a penny; and I never will. Ive nothing left 
but my friends; and I wont sell them. If none of you 
were to be able to meet me without being afraid that my 
civility was leading up to the loan of five shillings, there 
would be an end of everything for me. I’ll take your old 
clothes, Colly, sooner than disgrace you by talking to you 
in the street in my own; but I wont borrow money. I'll 
train it as far as the twopence will take me; and I’ll tramp 
the rest. 

waLPoLe. Youll do the whole distance in my motor. 
[They are all greatly reheved; aud Walpole hastens to get away 
from the painful subject by adding| Did he get anything out 
of you, Mr Schutzmacher? 

SCHUTZMACHER [shakes his head in a most expressive 
negative]. 

WALPoLe. You didnt appreciate his drawing, I think. 

SCHUTZMACHER. Oh yes I did. I should have liked very 
much to have kept the sketch and got it autographed. 

B. B. But why didnt you? 

SCHUTZMACHER. Well, the fact is, when I joined Dubedat 
after his conversation with Mr Walpole, he said that the 
Jews were the only people who knew anything about art, 
and that though he had to put up with your Philistine 
twaddle, as he called it, it was what I said about the draw- 
ings that really pleased him. He also said that his wife was 
greatly struck with my knowledge, and that she always 
admired Jews. Then he asked me to advance him £50 on 
the security of the drawings. 


Act II The Doctor’s Dilemma 45 


B. B. [Au a ae Positively! Seriously! 
WALPOLE hat! Another fifty! 
BLENKINSOP Think of that! 

SIR PATRICK [grunts]! 

SCHUTZMACHER. Of course I couldnt lend money to a 
stranger like that. 

B. B. I envy you the power to say No, Mr Schutzmacher. 
Of course, I knew I oughtnt to lend money to a young 
fellow in that way; but I simply hadnt the nerve to refuse. 
I couldnt very well, you know, could I? 

SCHUTZMACHER. I dont understand that. J felt that I 
couldnt very well lend it. 

WALPoLe, What did he say? 

SCHUTZMACHER. Well, he made a very uncalled-for remark 
about a Jew not understanding the feelings of a gentleman. 
I must say you Gentiles are very hard to please. You say 
we are no gentlemen when we lend money; and when we 
refuse to lend it you say just the same. I didnt mean to 
behave badly. As I told him, I might have lent it to him 
if he had been a Jew himself. 

siR PATRICK [with a grunt] And what did he say to that? 

SCHUTZMACHER. Oh, he began trying to persuade me 
that he was one of the chosen people—that his artistic 
faculty shewed it, and that his name was as foreign as my 
own. He said he didnt really want £50; that he was only 
joking; that all he wanted was a couple of sovereigns. 

s. B. No, no, Mr Schutzmacher. You invented that last 
touch. Seriously, now? 

SCHUTZMACHER. No. You cant improve on Nature in 
telling stories about gentlemen like Mr Dubedat. 

BLENKINSOP. You certainly do stand by one another, you 
chosen people, Mr Schutzmacher. 

SCHUTZMACHER. Not at all. Personally, I like English- 
men better than Jews, and always associate with them. 
Thats only natural, because, as I am a Jew, theres nothing 
interesting in a Jew to me, whereas there is always some- 
thing interesting and foreign in an Englishman. But in 


exclaiming 
together | 


46 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


money matters it’s quite different. You see, when an 
Englishman borrows, all he knows or cares is that he wants 
money; and he’ll sign anything to get it, without in the 
least understanding it, or intending to carry out the agree- 
ment if it turns out badly for him. In fact, he thinks you 
a cad if you ask him to carry it out under such circum- 
stances. Just like the Merchant of Venice, you know. 
But if a Jew makes an agreement, he means to keep it and 
expects you to keep it. If he wants money for a time, he 
borrows it and knows he must pay it at the end of the 
time. If he knows he cant pay, he begs it as a gift. 

RIDGEON. Come, Loony! do you mean to say that Jews 
are never rogues and thieves? 

SCHUTZMACHER. Oh, not at all. But I was not talking of 
criminals. | was comparing honest Englishmen with honest 
Jews. 

Oxe of the hotel maids, a pretty, fair-haired woman of about 
25, comes from the hotel, rather furtively. She accosts Ridgeon. 

THE MalD. I beg your pardon, sir— 

RIDGEON. Eh? 

THE MaiD. I beg pardon, sir. It’s not about the hotel. 
I’m not allowed to be on the terrace; and I should be 
discharged if I were seen speaking to you, unless you were 
kind enough to say you called me to ask whether the 
motor has come back from the station yet. 

WALPOLE. Has it? 

THE Matp. Yes, sir. 

RipGEON. Well, what do vou want? 

THE Maid. Would you mind, sir, giving me the address 
of the gentleman that was with you at dinner? 

RIDGEON [s/arply] Yes, of course I should mind very 
much. You have no right to ask. 

THE MaiD. Yes, sir, I know it looks like that. But what 
am I to do? 

sik PATRICK. Whats the matter with you? 

THE maip. Nothing, sir. I want the address: thats all. 

B. B. You mean the young gentleman? 





Act II The Doctor’s Dilemma 47 


THE Maip. Yes, sir: that went to catch the train with 
the woman he brought with him. 

RipGeoN. The woman! Do you mean the iady who 
dined here? the gentleman’s wife? 

THE MaID. Dont believe them, sir. She cant be his wife, 
I’m his wife. 

B. B. [ix amazed remonstrance| My good girl! 

RIDGEON You his wife! 

WALPOLE What! whats that? Oh, this is getting per- 
fectly fascinating, Ridgeon. 

THE MAID. I could run upstairs and get you my marriage 
lines in a minute, sir, if you doubt my word. He’s Mr 
Louis Dubedat, isnt he? 

RIDGEON. Yes. 

THE MAID. Well, sir, you may believe me or not; but 
Pm the lawful Mrs Dubedat. 

sik PATRICK. And why arnt you living with your husband? 

THE Maib. We couldnt afford it, sir. I had thirty pounds 
saved; and we spent it all on our honeymoon in three 
weeks, and a lot more that he borrowed. Then I had to 
go back into service, and he went to London to get work 
at his drawing; and he never wrote me a line or sent me 
an address. J never saw nor heard of him again until I 
caught sight of him from the window going off in the 
motor with that woman. 

SIR PATRICK. Well, thats two wives to start with. 

B. B. Now upon my soul I dont want to be uncharitable ; 
but really I’m beginning to suspect that our young friend 
is rather careless. 

SIR PATRICK. Beginning to think! How long will it 
take you, man, to find out that he’s a damned young 
blackguard? 

BLENKINSOP. Oh, thats severe, Sir Patrick, very severe. 
Of course it’s bigamy; but still he’s very young; and she’s 
very pretty. Mr Walpole: may I spunge on you for another 
of those nice cigarets of yours? [He changes his seat for the 
one next Walpole}. 


48 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act I 


wWALpoLe. Certainly. [He feels in his pockets]. Oh bother! 
Where—? [Suddenly remembering] I say: I recollect now: 
I passed my cigaret case to Dubedat and he didnt return 
it. It was a gold one. 

THE MaiD. He didnt mean any harm: he never thinks 
about things like that, sir. I'll get it back for you, sir, if 
youll tell me where to find him. 

RipGEON. What am I to do? Shall I give her the address 
or not? 

sin PATRICK. Give her your own address; and then we’ll 
see. [To the maid] Youll have to be content with that for 
the present, my girl. [Ridgeon gives her his card]. Whats 
your name? 

THE MaIpD. Minnie Tinwell, sir. 

SIR PATRICK. Well, you write him a‘letter to care of 
this gentleman; and it will be sent on. Now be off with you. 

THE MalD. Thank you, sir. I’m sure you wouldnt see 
me wronged. Thank you all, gentlemen; and excuse the 
liberty. 

She goes into the hotel. They watch her in silence. 

ripGEoN [wé4en she is gone] Do you realize, you chaps, 
that we have promised Mrs Dubedat to save this fellow’s life? 

BLENKINSOP. Whats the matter with him? 

R1iDGEON. Tuberculosis. 

BLENKINSOP [é#terested| And can you cure that? 

ripGEON. I believe so. 

BLENKINSOP. Then I wish youd cure me. My right lung 
is touched, I’m sorry to say. 


RIDGEON | What! your lung is going! 
B. B. My dear Blenkinsop, what de 
you tell me? [ful of concern 
[22 for Blenkinsop, he comes back 
; together| \ from the balustrade]. 
SIR PATRICK Eh? Eh? whats that? 
WALPOLE Hullo! you mustnt neglect this, 
you know. 


BLENKINSOP [putting his fingers in his ears| No, no: it’s 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 49 


no use. I know what youre going to say: Ive said it often 
to others. I cant afford to take care of myself; and theres 
an end of it. If a fortnight’s holiday would save my life, 
I'd have to die. I shal! get on as others have to get on. 
We cant all go to St Moritz or to Egypt, you know, Sir 
Ralph. Dont talk about it. 

Embarrassed silence. 

sir PATRICK [grunts and looks hard at Ridgeon]! 

SCHUTZMACHER [looking at his watch and rising] 1 must go. 
It’s been a very pleasant evening, Colly. You might let me 
have my portrait if you dont mind. I'll send Mr Dubedat 
that couple of sovereigns for it. 

RIDGEON [giving him the menu card| Oh dont do that, 
Loony. I dont think he’d like that. 

SCHUTZMACHER. Well, of course I shant if you feel that 
way about it. But I dont think you understand Dubedat. 
However, perhaps thats because I’m a Jew. Good-night, 
Dr Blenkinsop [shaking sands]. 

BLENKINSOP. Good-night, sir—I mean—Good-night. 

SCHUTZMACHER [ewaving his hand to the rest] Good-night, 
everybody. 

WALPOLE 

me Good-night. 

SIR PATRICK 

RIDGEON 

B. B. repeats the salutation several times, in varied musical 
tones. Schutzmacher goes out. 

SIR PATRICK. It’s time for us all to move. [He rises and 
comes between Blenkinsop and Walpole. Ridgeon also rises). 
Mr Walpole: take Blenkinsop home: he’s had enough of 
the open air cure for to-night. Have you a thick overcoat 
to wear in the motor, Dr Blenkinsop ? 

BLENKINSOP. Oh, theyll give me some brown paper in 
the hotel; and a few thicknesses of brown paper across the 
chest are better than any fur coat. 

WALPOLE. Well, come along. Good-night, Colly. Youre 
coming with us, arnt you, B. B.? 


B 


50 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IE 


B. B. Yes: ’mcoming. [Walpele and Blenkinsop go into 
the hotel], Good-night, my dear Ridgeon [shaking hand. 
affectionately]. Dont let us lose sight of your interesting 
patient and his very charming wife. We must not judge him 
too hastily, you know. [With unction] Gooooooood-night, 
Paddy. Bless you, dear old chap. [Sir Patrick utters a for- 
midable grunt. B. B. laughs and pats him indulgentl on the 
shoulder} Good-night. Good-night. Good-night. Good- 
night. [He good-nights himself into the hotel]. 

The others have meanwhile gone without ceremony. Ridgeon 
and Sir Patrick are left alone together. Ridgeon, deep in 
thought, comes down to Sir Patrick. 

sIR PATRICK. Well, Mr Savior of Lives: which is it to be? 
that honest decent man Blenkinsop, or that rotten black- 
guard of an artist, eh? 

RIDGEON. It’s not an easy case to judge, is it? Blenkin- 
sop’s an honest decent man; but is he any use? Dubedat’s 
a rotten blackguard ; but he’s a genuine source of pretty and 
pleasant and good things. 

siR PATRICK. What will he be a source of for that poor 
innocent wife of his, when she finds him out? 

RIDGEON. Thats true. Her life will be a hell. 

str PATRICK. And tell me this. Suppose you had this — 
choice put before you: either to go through life and find — 
all the pictures bad but all the men and women good, or 
to go through life and find all the pictures good and all the 
men and women rotten. Which would you choose? 

RIDGEON. Thats a devilishly difficult question, Paddy. 
The pictures are so agreeable, and the good people so infer- 
nally disagreeable and mischievous, that I really cant under- 
take to say offhand which I should prefer to do without. 

SIR PATRICK. Come come! none of your cleverness with 
me: I’m too old for it. Blenkinsop isnt that sort of good . 
man; and you know it. 

RIDGEON. It would be simpler if Blenkinsop could pain: 
Dubedat’s pictures. 

sin PATRICK. It would be simpler still if Dubedat had 


Act II The Doctor’s Dilemma 51 


some of Blenkinsop’s honesty. The world isnt going to be 
made simple for you, my lad: you must take it as it is. 
Youve to hold the scales between Blenkinsop and Dubedat. 
Hold them fairly. 

ripczon. Well, I'll be as fair as I can. I’ll put into one 
scale all the pounds Dubedat has borrowed, and into the 
other ail the half-crowns that Blenkinsop hasnt borrowed. 

sIR PaTRICK. And youll take out of Dubedat’s scale all 
the faith he has destroyed and the honor he has lost, and 
youll put into Blenkinsop’s scale all the faith he has justi- 
fied and the honor he has created. 

RipGeoN. Come come, Paddy! none of your claptrap 
with me: I’m too sceptical for it. I’m not at all convinced 
that the world wouldnt be a better world if everybody 
behaved as Dubedat does than it is now that everybody 
behaves as Blenkinsop does. 

sin PATRICK. Then why dont you behave as Dubedat 
does? 

_ Ripczon. Ah, that beats me. Thats the experimental 
test. Still, it’s a dilemma. It’s a dilemma. You see theres 
a complication we havnt mentioned. 

SIR PATRICK. Whats that ? 

ripGEON. Well, if I let Blenkinsop die, at least nobody 
can say I did it because I wanted to marry his widow. 

SIR PATRICK. Eh? Whats that? 

ripcEon. Now if I let Dubedat die, Pll marry his widow. 

SIR PATRICK. Perhaps she wont have you, you know. 

RIDGEON [with a self-assured shake of the bead] Pvea pretty 
. good flair for that sort of thing. I know when a woman is 
interested in me. She is. 

SIR PATRICK. Well, sometimes a man knows best; and 
sometimes he knows worst. Youd much better cure them 
both. 

ripGEon. I cant. [’m at my limit. I can squeeze in one 
more case, but not two. I must choose. 

sik PATRICK. Well, you must choose as if she didnt exist: 
thats clear. 


$2 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


RIDGEON. Is that clear to you? Mind: it’s not clear to 
me. She troubles my judgment. 

SIR PATRICK. To me, it’s a plain choice between a man 
and a lot of pictures. 

RIDGEON. It’s easier to replace a dead man than a good 
, picture. 

siIR PATRICK. Colly: when you live in an age that runs to 
pictures and statues and plays and brass bands because its 
men and women are not good enough to comfort its poor 
aching soul, you should thank Providence that you belong 
to a profession which is a high and great profession because 
its business is to heal and mend men and women. ~ 

rrpGzON. In short, as a member of a high and great pro- 
fession, I’m to kill my patient. 

sIR PATRICK. Dont talk wicked nonsense. You cant kill 
him. But you can leave him in other hands. 

RIDGEON. In B. B.’s, for instance: eh? [looking at him 
significantly]. 

sin PATRICK [demurely facing his look] Sit Ralph Bloomfield 
Bonington is a very eminent physician. 

RIDGEON. He is. 

sik PATRICK. I’m going for my hat. 

Ridgeon strikes the bell as Sir Patrick makes for the hotel, A _ 
waiter comes. 

riDGEON [fo the waiter] My bill, please. 

WAITER. Yes, sir. 


He goes for it. 





ACT Ill 


In Dubedat’s studio. Viewed from the large window the 
outer door is in the wall on the left at the near end. The door 
heading to the inner rooms is in the opposite wall, at the far 
end. The facing wall has neither window nor door. The plaster 
om all the walls is uncovered and undecorated, except by scrawl- 
ings of charcoal sketches and memoranda. There is a studio 
throne (a chair on a dais) a Kittle to the left, opposite the inner 
door, and an easel to the right, opposite the outer door, with a 
dilapidated chair at it. Near the easel and against the wall is 
4 bare wooden table with bottles and jars of oil and medium, 
paint-smudged rags, tubes of color, brushes, charcoal, a small lay 
Jigure, a Rettle and spirit-lamp, and other odds and ends. By 
the table is a sofa, littered with drawing blocks, sketch-books, 
loose sheets of paper, newspapers, books, and more smudged rags. 
Next the outer door is an umbrella and hat stand, occupied 
partly by Louis’ hats and clak and muffler, and partly by odds 
and ends of costumes. There is an old piano stool on the near 
side of this door. In the corner near the inner door is a iittle 
tea-tabie. A lay figure, in a cardinal’s robe and bat, with an 
hour-glass in one hand and a scythe slung on its back, smiles with 
inane malice at Louis, who, in a milkman’s smock much smudged 
with colors, is painting a piece of brocade which he has draped about 
his wife. She is sitting on the throne, not interested in the paint- 
ing, and appealing to him very anxiously about another matter. 


MRS DUBEDAT. Promise. 
53 


54 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


Louis [putting on a touch of paint with notable skill and care 
and answering quite perfunctorily| I promise, my darling. 

MRS DUBEDAT. When you want money, you will always 
come to me. 

Louis. But it’s so sordid, dearest. I hate money. I cant 
keep always bothering you for money, money, money. 
Thats what drives me sometimes to ask other people, 
though I hate doing it. 

Mrs DuBEDAT. It is far better to ask me, dear. It gives 
people a wrong idea of you. 

Louis. But I want to spare your little fortune, and raise 
money on my own work. Dont be unhappy, love: I can 
easily earn enough to pay it all back. I shall have a one- 
man-show next season; and then there will be no more 
money troubles. [Putting down his palette) There! I mustnt 
do any more on that until it’s bone-dry; so you may come 
down. 

Mrs DuBEDAT [fhrowing off the drapery as she steps down, 
and revealing a plain frock of tussore silk] But you have pro- 
mised, remember, seriously and faithfully, never to borrow 
again until you have first asked me. 

Louis. Seriously and faithfully. [Eéracing fer] Ah, my 
love, how right you are! how much it means to me to 
have you by me to guard me against living too much in the 
skies. On my solemn oath, from this moment forth I will 
never borrow another penny. 

mrs DuBEDAT [de/ighted] Ah, thats right. Does his wicked 
worrying wife torment him and drag him down from the 
clouds. [S/e kisses Aim]. And now, dear, wont you finish 
those drawings for Maclean? 

Louis. Oh, they dont matter. Ive got nearly all the 
money from him in advance. 

MRS DUBEDAT. But, dearest, that is just the reason why 
you should finish them. He asked me the other day whether 
you really intended to finish them. 

Louis. Confound his impudence! What the devil does 
he take me for? Now that just destroys all my interest in 





Act fl The Doctor’s Dilemma igs 


the beastly job. Ive a good mind to throw up the commis- 
sion, and pay him back his money. 

MRS DUBEDAT. We cant afford that, dear. You had better 
finish the drawings and have done with them. I think it is 
a mistake to accept money in advance. 

Louis. But how are we to live? 

MRS DUBEDAT. Well, Louis, it is getting hard enough as 
it is, now that they are all refusing to pay except on 
delivery. 

Louis. Damn those fellows! they think of nothing and 
care for nothing but their wretched money. 

MRs puBEDAT. Sill, if they pay us, they ought to have 
what they pay for. 

Louis [coaxing] There now: thats enough lecturing for 
to-day. Ive promised to be good, havnt I? 

MRS DUBEDAT [putting her arms round his neck] You know 
that I hate, lecturing, and that I dont for a moment mis- 
understand you, dear, dont you? 

Louis { foxdly] I know. 1 know. I’m a wretch; and 
youre an angel. Oh, if only I were strong enough to work 
steadily, I'd make my darling’s house a temple, and her 
shrine a chapel more beautiful than was ever imagined. I 
cant pass the shops without wrestling with the temptation to 
go in and order all the really good things they have for you. 

MRS DUBEDAT. I want nothing but you, dear. [Sfe gives 
him a caress, to which he responds so passionately that she disen-. 
gages herself]. There! be good now: remember that the 
doctors are coming this morning. Isnt it extraordinarily 
kind of them, Louis, to insist on coming? all of them, to 
consult about you? 

Louis [cooly] Oh, I daresay they think it will be a 
feather in their cap to cure a rising artist. They wouldnt 
come if it didnt amuse them, anyhow. [Someone knocks at 
the dor]. I say: it’s not time yet, is it? 

mrs puBEDaT. No, not quite yet. 

Louis [opening the door and finding Ridgeon there] Hello, 
Ridgeon. Delighted to see you. Come in. 


co The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


MRS DUBEDAT [shaking hands] It’s so good of you to come, 
doctor. 

Louis. Excuse this place, wont you? It’s only a studio, 
you know: theres no real convenience for living here. 
But we pig along somehow, thanks to Jennifer. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Now [ll run away. Perhaps later on, 
when youre finished with Louis, I may come in and hear 
the verdict. [Ridgeon bows rather constrainedly]. Would you 
rather I didnt? 

ripGeon. Not at all. Not at all. 

Mrs Dubedat loks at him, a littl puzzled by his formal 
manner; then goes into the inner room. 

Louis [_fippantly] I say: dont look so grave. Theres 
nothing awful going to happen, is there? 

RIDGEON. No. 

Louis. Thats all right. Poor Jennifer has been looking 
forward to your visit more than you can imagine. Shes 
taken quite a fancy to you, Ridgeon. The poor girl has 
nobody to talk to: I’m always painting. [Taking up a 
sketch] Theres a little sketch I made of her yesterday. 

RIDGEON. She shewed it to me a fortnight ago when she 
first called on me. 

Louis [quite unabashed| Oh! did she? Good Lord! how 
time does fly! I could have sworn I’d only just finished 
it. It’s hard for her here, seeing me piling up drawings 
and nothing coming in for them. Of course I shall sell 
them next year fast enough, after my one-man-show; but 
while the grass grows the steed starves. I hate to have her 
coming to me for money, and having none to give her. 
But what can I do? 

ripGeon. I understood that Mrs Dubedat had some 
property of her own. 

Louis. Oh yes, a little; but how could a man with any 
decency of feeling touch that? Suppose I did, what would 
she have to live on if I died? I’m not insured: cant 
afford the premiums. [Picking out another drawing] How 
do you like that? 


Acti The Doctor’s Dilemma 57 


RIDGEON [putting it aside] I have not come here to-day 
to look at your drawings. I have more serious and pressing 
business with you. 

Louis. You want to sound my wretched lung. [Wits 
impulsive candor| My dear Ridgeon: I'll be frank with 
you. Whats the matter in this house isnt lungs but bills. 
It doesnt matter about me; but Jennifer has actually to 
economize in the matter of food. Youve made us feel that 
we can treat you as a friend. Will you lend us a hundred 
and fifty pounds? 

RIDGEON. No. 

Louis [surprised)| Why not? 

RIDGEON. I am not a rich man; and I want every penny 
I can spare and more for my researches. 

Louis. You mean youd want the money back again. 

RIDGEON. I presume people sometimes have that in view 
when they lend money. 

Louis [after a moment’s reflection] Well, I can manage 
that for you. I'll give you a cheque—or see here: theres 
no reason why you shouldnt have your bit too: I'll give 
you a cheque for two hundred. 

RIDGEON. Why not cash the cheque at once without 
troubling me? 

Louis. Bless you! they wouldnt cash it: ’'m overdrawn 
as itis. No: the way to work it is this. Ill postdate the 
* cheque next October. In October Jennifer’s dividends 
come in. Well, you present the cheque. It will be re- 
turned marked “refer to drawer” or some rubbish of that 
sort. Then you can take it to Jennifer, and hint that if 
the cheque isnt taken up at once I shall be put in prison. 
She'll pay you like a shot. Youll clear £50; and youll do 
me areal service; for I do want the money very badly, 
old chap, I assure you. 

RIDGEON [staring at him] You see no objection to the 
transaction ; and you anticipate none from me! 

tours. Well, what objection can there be? It’s quite 
safe. I can convince you about the dividends. 


58 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


RIDGEON. I mean on the score of its being—shall I say 
dishonorable? 

Louis. Well, of course I shouldnt suggest it if I didnt 
want the money. 

RiDGEON. Indeed! Well, you will have to find some 
other means of getting it. 

Louis. Do you mean that you refuse? 

RipcEoN. Do I mean—! [étting his indignation loose} 
Of course I refuse, man. What do you take me for? How 
dare you make such a proposal to me? 

Louis. Why not? 

RIDGEON. Faugh! You would not understand me if 1 
tried to explain. Now, once for all, I will not lend you a 
farthing. I should be glad to help your wife; but lending 
you money is no service to her. 

Louis. Oh well, if youre in earnest about helping her, 
I'll tell you what you might do. You might get your 
patients to buy some of my things, or to give me a few 
portrait commissions. 

R1DGEON. My patients call me in as a physician, not as a 
commercial traveller. 

A knock at the door. Louis goes unconcernedly to open it, 
pursuing the subject as he goes. 

Louis. But you must have great influence with them. 
You must know such lots of things about them—private 
things that they wouldnt like to have known. They wouldnt 
dare to refuse you. 

RIDGEON [exphding] Well, upon my— 

Louis opens the door, and admits Sir Patrick, Sir Ralph, 
and Walpole. 

RIDGEON [ proceeding furiously] Walpole: Ive been here 
hardly ten minutes; and already he’s tried to borrow £150 
from me. Then he proposed that I should get the 
money for him by blackmailing his wife; and youve 
just interrupted him in the act of suggesting that 1 
should blackmail my patients into sitting to him for their 
portraits, 


Act III The Doctor’s Dilemma 


Louis. Well, Ridgeca, if this is what you call being an 
honorable man! I spoke to you in confidence. 

siR PATRICK. We’re all going to speak to you in confi- 
dence, young man. 

WALPOLE [/anging his hat on the only peg left vacant on the 
‘hat-stand] We shall make ourselves at home for half an hour, 
Dubedat. Dont bealarmed: youre a most fascinating chap ; 
and we love you. 

Louis. Oh, all right, all right. Sit down—anywhere you 
can. Take this chair, Sir Patrick [éxdicating the one on the 
throne]. Up-z-2-z! [Aelping fim up: Sir Patrick grunts and 
enthrones Limself|. Here you are, B. B. [Sir Ralph glares 
at the familiarity; but Louis, quite undisturbed, puts a big book 
and a sofa cushion on the dais, on Sir Patrick's right; and B. B. 
sits down, under protest}. Let me take your hat. [He takes 
B. B.'s bat unceremoniously, and substitutes it for the cardinal’s 
hat on the head of the lay fgure, thereby ingeniously destroying the 
dignity of the conclave. He then draws the piano stool from the 
wall and offers it to Walpole]. You dont mind this, Walpole, 
do you? [Walpole accepts the stool, and puts his hand into his 
pocket for his cigaret case. Missing it, he is reminded of bis boss). 

waLPoLe. By the way, Tll trouble you for my cigaret 
case, if you dont mind? 

Louis. What cigaret case? 

waLpoLe. The gold one I lent you at the Star and 
Garter. 

Louis [surprised] Was that yours? 

WALPOLE. Yes. 

tours. ’'m awfully sorry, old chap. I wondered whose 
it was. I’m sorry to say this is all thats left of it. [He 
hitches up his smock; produces a card from his waistcoat pocket; 
and hands it to Walpole]. 

WALPOLE. A pawn ticket! 

Louis [reassuringly] It’s quite safe: he cant sell it for a 
year, you know. I say, my dear Walpole, I am sorry. [He 
places his hand ingenuously on Wealpole’'s shoulder and looks 
Jrankly at hint), 


60 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


WALPOLE [sinking on the stool with a gasp| Dont mention 
it. It adds to your fascination. 

RIDGEON [who has been standing near the easel\ Before we 
go any further, you have a debt to pay, Mr Dubedat. 

Louis. I have a precious lot of debts to pay, Ridgeon. 
I'll fetch you a chair. [He makes for the inner door]. 

RIDGEON (stopping tim] You shall not leave the room until 
you pay it. It’s asmall one; and pay it you must and shall. 
I dont so much mind your borrowing £10 from one of my 
guests and £20 from the other— 

waLPoLe. I walked into it, you know. I offered it. 

RIDGEON. ——-they could afford it. But to clean poor 
Blenkinsop out of his last half-crown was damnable. 1 
intend to give him that half-crown and to be in a position 
to pledge him my word that you paid it. I’ll have that out 
of you, at al] events. 

B. B. Quite right, Ridgeon. Quite right. Come, young 
man! down with the dust. Pay up. 

Louis. Oh, you neednt make such a fuss about it. Of 
course I’ll pay it. I had no idea the poor fellow was hard 
up. I’m as shocked as any of you about it. [Putting his 
hand into bis pocket] Here you are. [Finding his pocket empty) 
Oh, I say, I havnt any money on me justat present. Walpole: 
would you mind lending me half-a-crown just to settle this. 

WALPOLE. Lend you half— [Ais voice faints away]. 

Louis. Well, if you dont, Blenkinsop wont get it; 
for I havnt a rap: you may search my pockets if you 
like. 

waLpoLe. Thats conclusive. [He produces half-a-crown]. 

Louis [ passing it to Ridgeon| ‘There! I’m really glad thats 
settled: it was the only thing that was on my conscience. 
Now I hope youre all satisfied. 

siR PATRICK. Not quite, Mr Dubedat. Do you happen to 
know a young woman named Minnie Tinwell ? 

Louis. Minnie! Ishould think Ido; and Minnie knows 
me too. She’sa really nice good girl, considering her station. 
Whats become of her? 


Act Ill The Doctor’s Dilemma 6, 


WALPOLE. It’s no use bluffing, Dubedat. Weve seen 
Minnie’s marriage lines. 

Louis [coo//y} Indeed? Have you seen Jennifer’s? 

RIDGEON [rising in irrepressible rage] Do you dare insinuate 
that Mrs Dubedat is living with you without being married 


to you? 
Louis. Why not? 
B. B. [echoing him in (Why not! 
SIR PATRICK various tones of } Why not! 
RIDGEON scandalized Why not! 
WALPOLE amazement } Why not! 


Louis. Yes, why not? I.ots of people do it: just as good 
people as you. Why dont you learn to think, instead of 
bleating and baahing like a lot of sheep when you come up 
against anything youre not accustomed to? [Contemplating 
their amazed faces with a chuckle) 1 say: I should like to 
draw the tot of you now: you do look jolly foolish. 
Especially you, Ridgeon. I had you that time, you know. 

RIDGEON. How, pray? 

Louis. Well, you set up to appreciate Jennifer, you know. 
And you despise me, dont you? 

RIDGEON [curtly}] I loathe you. [He sits down again on the 
sofa). 

oe Just so. And yet you believe that Jennifer is a bad 
lot because you think I told you so. 

RIDGEON. Were you lying? 

Louis. No; but you were smelling out a scandal instead of 
keeping your mindclean andwholesome. Ican just play with 
people like you. I only asked you had you seen Jennifer’s 
marriage lines; and you concluded straight away that she 
hadnt got any. You dont know a lady when you see one. 

B. B. [majestically] What do you mean by that, may I ask? 

Louis. Now, I’m only an immoral artist; but if youd 
told me that Jennifer wasnt married, I’d have had the 
gentlemanly feeling and artistic instinct to say that she 
carried her marriage certificate in her face and in her 
character. But you are all moral men; and Jennifer is 


62 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act Ill 


only an artist’s wife—probably a model; and morality con- 
sists in suspecting other people of not being legally 
married. Arnt you ashamed of yourselves? Can one of you 
look me in the face after it? 

WALPOLE. It’s very hard to look you in the face, Dubedat ; 
you have such a dazzling cheek. What about Minnie 
Tinwell, eh? 

Louis. Minnie Tinwell is a young woman who has had 
three weeks of glorious happiness in her poor little life, 
which is more than most girls in her position get, I can 
tell you. Ask her whether she’d take it back if she could. 
She’s got her name into history, that girl. My little sketches 
of her will be fought for by collectors at Christie’s. She’ll 
have a page in my biography. Pretty good, that, fora still- 
room maid at a seaside hotel, I think. What have you 
fellows done for her to compare with that? 

RIDGEON. We havnt trapped her into a mock marriage 
and deserted her. 

Louis. No: you wouldnt have the pluck. But dont fuss 
yourselves. J didnt desert little Minnie. We spent all our 
money— 

watpoLe. All her money. Thirty pounds. 

Louis. I said all our money: hers and mine too. Her 
thirty pounds didnt last three days. I had to borrow four 
times as much to spend on her. But I didnt grudge it; 
and she didnt grudge her few pounds either, the brave 
little lassie. When we were cleaned out, we’d had enough 
of it: you can hardly suppose that we were fit company 
for longer than that: I an artist, and she quite out of art 
and literature and refined living and everything else. There 
was no desertion, no misunderstanding, no police court or 
divorce court sensation for you moral chaps to lick your 
lips over at breakfast. We just said, Well, the money’s 
gone: weve had a good time that can never be taken from 
us; so kiss; part good friends; and she back to service, and 
I back to my studio and my Jennifer, both the better and 
happier for our holiday. 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma 63 


WALPOLE. Quite a little poem, by George! 

B. B. If you had been scientifically trained, Mr Dubedat, 
you would know how very seldom an actual case bears out 
a principle. In medical practice a man may die when, 
scientifically speaking, he ought to have lived. I have 
actually known a man die of a disease from which he was, 
scientifically speaking, immune. But that does not affect 
the fundamental truth of science. In just the same way, in 
moral cases, a man’s behavior may be quite harmless and 
even beneficial, when he is morally behaving like a scoun- 
drel. And he may do great harm when he is morally acting 
on the highest principles. But that does not affect the 
fundamental truth of morality. 

str PATRICK. And it doesnt affect the criminal law on the 
subject of bigamy. 

Louis. Oh bigamy! bigamy! bigamy! What a fascination 
anything connected with the police has for you all, you 
moralists! Ive proved to you that you were utterly wrong 
on the moral point: now I’m going to shew you that youre 
utterly wrong on the legal point; and I hope it will be a 
lesson to you not to be so jolly cocksure next time. 

WALPOLE. Rot! You were married already when you 
married her; and that settles it. 

Louis. Does it! Why cant you think? How do you 
know she wasnt married already too? 


B. B. [all Walpole! Ridgeon! 
RIDGFON crying This is beyond everything. 
WALPOLE out Well, damn me! 


siR PATRICK ) together] | You young rascal. 

Louis [ignoring their outcry) She was marricd to the 
steward of a liner. He cleared out and left her; and she 
thought, poor girl, that it was the law that if you hadnt 
heard of your husband for three years you might marry 
again. So as she was a thoroughly respectable girl and 
refused to have anything to say to me unless we were 
married I went through the ceremony to please her and to 
preserve her self-respect. 


64 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


RiDGEON. Did you tell her you were already married? 

Louis. Of course not. Dont you see that if she had 
known, she wouldnt have considered herself my wife? You 
dont seem to understand, somehow. 

SIR PATRICK. You let her risk imprisonment in her ignor- 
ance of the law? 

Louis. Well, J risked imprisonment for her sake. I 
could have been had up for it just as much as she. But 
when a man makes a sacrifice of that sort for a woman, he 
doesnt go and brag about it to her; at least, not if he’s a 
gentleman. 

waLpoLte. What are we to do with this daisy ! 

LOUIS [émpatiently | Oh, go and do whatever the devil you 
please. Put “Minnie in prison. Put me in prison. Kill 
Jennifer with the disgrace of it all. And then, when youve 
done all the mischief you can, go to church and feel good 
about it. [He sits down pettishly on the old chair at the easel, 
and takes up a sketching block, on which be begins to draw). 

WALPOLE. He’s got us. 

sik PATRICK [grimly] He has. 

B. B. But is he to be allowed to defy the criminal law of 
the land? 

sIR PATRICK. The criminal law is no use to decent people. 
It only helps blackguards to blackmail their families. What 
are we family doctors doing half our time but conspiring 
with the family solicitor to keep some rascal out of jail and 
some family out of disgrace? 

B. B. But at least it will punish him. 

sIR PATRICK. Oh yes: itll] punish him. Itl! punish not 
only him but everybody connected with him, innocent and 
guilty alike. Itll throw his board and lodging on our rates 
and taxes for a couple of years, and then turn him loose on 
us a more dangerous blackguard than ever. Itll put the 
girl in prison and ruin her: itll lay his wife’s life waste. 
You may put the criminal law out of your head once for 
all: it’s only fit for fools and savages. 

Louis. Would you mind turning your face a little more 





Act III The Doctor’s Dilemma 65 


this way, Sir Patrick. [Sir Patrick turns indignantly and 
glares at him]. Oh, thats too much. 

sik PATRICK. Put down your foolish pencil, man; and 
think of your position. You can defy the laws made by 
men; but there are other laws to reckon with. Do you 
know that youre going to die? 

tours, We’re all going to die, arnt we? 

waLpote. We're not all going to die in six months. 

Louis. How do you know? 

This for B. B. is the last straw. He completely loses bis 
temper and begins to walk excitedly about. 

8. 8B. Upon my soul, I will not stand this. It is in ques- 
tionable taste under any circumstances or in any company 
to harp on the subject of death; but it is a dastardly 
advantage to take ofa medical man. [Thundering at Dubedat] 
I will not allow it, do you hear? 

Louis. Well, I didnt begin it: you chaps did. It’s always 
the way with the inartistic professions: when theyre beaten 
in argument they fall back on intimidation. I never knew 
a lawyer yet who didnt threaten to put me in prison sooner 
or later. I never knew a parson who didnt threaten me 
with damnation. And now you threaten me with death. 
With all your tall talk youve only one real trump in your 

_hand, and thats Intimidation. Well, I’m not a coward; so 
it’s no use with me. 

B. B. [advancing upon him] Vl) tell you what you are, sir. 
Youre a scoundrel. 

Louis. Oh, I dont mind you calling mea scoundrel a bit. 
It’s only a word: a word that you dont know the meaning 
of. What is a scoundrel? 

B. B. You are a scoundrel, sir. 

Louis. Just so. What is a scoundrel? I am. What am 
I? A scoundrel. It’s just arguing in a circle. And you 
imagine youre a man of science! 

B. B. I—-I—-I—I have a good mind to take you by the 
scruff of your neck, you infamous rascal, and give you a 
sound thrashing. 

F 


~ 


66 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act Ill 


Louis. I wish you would. Youd pay me something 
handsome to keep it out of court afterwards. [B. B., 
baffied, flings away from him with a snort), Have you any 
more civilities to address to me in my own house? I should 
like to get them over before my wife comes back. [He re- 
sumes his sketching}. 

RipGEON. My mind’s made up. When the law breaks 
down, honest men must find a remedy for themselves. [ 
will not lift a finger to save this reptile. 

B. B. That is the word I was trying to remember. 
Reptile. 

waLpoLe. I cant help rather liking you, Dubedat. But 
you certainly are a thoroughgoing specimen. 

sik PATRICK. You know our opinion of you now, at all 
events. 

Louis [paticntly putting down his pencil] Vook here. All 
this is no good. You dont understand. You imagine that 
I’m simply an ordinary criminal. 

waLPoLe. Not an ordinary one, Dubedat. Do yourself 
justice. 

Louis, Well, youre on the wrong tack altogether. I’m 
not a criminal. All your moralizings have no value for 
me. Idont believe in morality. I’m a disciple of Bernard 
Shaw. « 

[puzzled] Eh? 

sin PATRICK | | [waving his hand as if the subject were now 

B. B disposed of | Thats enough: I wish to 

hear no more. 

Louis. Of course I havnt the ridiculous vanity to set up 
to be exactly a Superman; but still, it’s an ideal that I 
strive towards just as any other man strives towards his 
ideal. 

B. B. [éztolerant] Dont trouble to explain. I now under- 
stand you perfectly. Say no more, please. When a man 
pretends to discuss science, morals, and religion, and then 
avows himself a follower of a notorious and avowed anti- 
vaccinationist, there is nothing more to be said. [Suddenly 





ActII The Doctor’s Dilemma 67 


putting in an effusive saving clause in parenthesis to Ridgeon] 
Not, my dear Ridgeon, that | believe in vaccination in the 
popular sense any more than you do: I neednt tell you 
that. But there are things that place a man socially; and 
anti-vaccination is one of them. [He resumes his seat on the 
dais). 

sIR PATRICK. Bernard Shaw? I never heard of him, 
He’s a Methodist preacher, I suppose. 

Louis [scandalized| No, no. He’s the most advanced 
man now living: he isnt anything. 

SIR PATRICK. I assure you, young man, my father learnt 
the doctrine of deliverance from sin from John Wesley’s 
own lips before you or Mr Shaw were born. It used to be 
very popular as an excuse for putting sand in sugar and 
water in milk. Youre a sound Methodist, my lad; only 
you dont know it. 

Louis [seriously annoyed for the first time] It’s an intel- 
lectual insult. I dont believe theres such a thing as sin. 

sik PATRICK. Well, sir, there are people who dont be- 
lieve theres such a thing as disease either. They call 
themselves Christian Scientists, I believe. Theyll just suit 
your complaint. We can do nothing for you. [He rises]. 
Good afternoon to you. 

Louis [running to him piteously] Oh dont get up, Sir 
Patrick. Dont go, Please dont. I didnt mean to shock 
you, on my word, Do sit down again. Give me another 
chance. Two minutes more: thats all IJ ask. 

SIR PATRICK [surprised by this sign of grace, and a littk 
touched) Well— [He sits down|— 

Louis [gratefully] Thanks awfully. 

SIR PATRICK [continuing] —I dont mind giving you two 
minutes more. But dont address yourself to me; for Ive 
retired from practice; and I dont pretend to be able to 
cure your complaint. Your life is in the hands of these 
gentlemen. 

ripceon. Not in mine. My hands are full. I have no 
time and no means available for this case. 


r 


68 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IE 


six patrick. What do you say, Mr Walpole? 

waLPoLe. Oh, I’ll take him in hand: I dont mind. I 
feel perfectly convinced that this is not a moral case at 
all: it’s a physical one. ‘Theres something abnormal about 
his brain. ‘That means, probably, some morbid condition 
affecting the spinal cord. And that means the circulation. 
In short, it’s clear to me that he’s suffering from an obscure 
form of blood-poisoning, which is almost certainly due to 
an accumulation of ptomaines in the nuciform sac. Vl 
remove the sac— 

Louis [changing color] Do you mean, operate on me? 
Ugh! No, thank you. 

waLpoLe. Never fear: you wont feel anything. Youll 
be under an anesthetic, of course. And it will be extra- 
ordinarily interesting. 

Louis. Oh, well, if it would interest you, and if it wont 
hurt, thats another matter. How much will you give me 
to let you do it? 

WALPOLE [rising indignantly] How much! What do you 
mean ? 

Louis. Well, you dont expect me to let you cut me up 
for nothing, do you? 

WALPOLE. Will you paint my portrait for nothing? 

tours. No; but I’ll give you the portrait when it’s painted ; 
and you can sell it afterwards for perhaps double the money. 
But I cant sell my nuciform sac when youve cut it out. 

WALPOLE. Ridgeon: did you ever hear anything like this! 
[To Louis] Well, you can keep your nuciform sac, and your 
tubercular lung, and your diseased brain: Ive done with 
you. One would think I was not conferring a favor on the 
fellow! [He returns to bis stool in high dudgeon}. 

SIR PATRICK. That leaves only one medical man who has 
not withdrawn from your case, Mr Dubedat. You have 
nobody left to appeal to now but Sir Ralph Bloomfield 
Bonington. 

waLpoLe. If I were you, B. B., I shouldnt touch him with 
a pair of tongs. Let him take his iungs to the Brompten 





Act III The Doctor’s Dilemma 69 


Hospital. They.wont cure him; but theyll teach him 
manners. 

B. B. My weakness is that I have never been able to say 
No, even to the most thoroughly undeserving people. Be- 
sides, I am bound to say that I dont think it is possible in 
medical] practice to go into the question of the value of the 
lives we save. Just consider, Ridgeon. Let me put it to 
you, Paddy. Clear your mind of cant, Walpole. 

WALPOLE [i#dignantly] My mind is perfectly clear of cant. 

B. B. Quite so. Well now, look at my practice. It is 
what I suppose you would call a fashionable practice, a 
smart practice, a practice among the best people. You ask 
me to go into the question of whether my patients are of 
any use either to themselves or anyone else. Well, if you 
apply any scientific test known to me, you will achieve a 
reductio ad absurdum. You will be driven to the conclu- 
sion that the majority of them would be, as my friend 
Mr J. M. Barrie has tersely phrased it, better dead. Better 
dead. There are exceptions, no doubt. For instance, there 
is the court, an essentially social-democratic institution, 
supported out of public funds by the public because the 
public wants it and likes it. My court patients are hard- 
working people who give satisfaction, undoubtedly. Then 
I have a duke or two whose estates are probably better 
managed than they would be in public hands. But as to 
most of the rest, if I once began to argue about them, un- 
questionably the verdict would be, Better dead. When 
they actually do die, I sometimes have to offer that con- 
solation, thinly disguised, to the family. [Lied by rhe 
cadences of his own voice, be becomes drowsier and drowsier), 
The fact that they spend money so extravagantly on medi- 
cal attendance really would not justify me in wasting my 
talents—such as they are—in keeping them alive. After 
all, if my fees are high, I have to spend heavily. My 
own tastes are simple: a camp bed, a coupie of rooms, 
a crust, a bottle of wine; and I am happy and contented. 
My wife’s tastes are perhaps more luxurious; but even she 


70 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


deplores an expenditure the sole object of which is to 
maintain the state my patients require from their medical 
attendant. The—er—er—er— [suddenly waking up] 1 have 
lost the thread of these remarks. What was I talking about, 
Ridgeon? 

ripczon. About Dubedat. 

B. B. Ah yes. Precisely. Thank you. Dubedat, of course. 
Well, what is our friend Dubedat? A vicious and ignorant 
young man with a talent for drawing. 

Louis. Thank you. Dont mind me. 

B.B. But then, what are many of my patients? Vicious 
and ignorant young men without a talent foranything. If 
I were to stop to argue about their merits I should have to 
give up three-quarters of my practice. ‘Therefore I have 
made it a rule not so to argue. Now, as an honorable 
man, having made that rule as to paying patients, can I 
make an exception as to a patient who, far from being a 
paying patient, may more fitly be described as a borrowing 
patient. No. I say No. Mr Dubedat: your moral char- 
acter is nothing to me. I look at you from a purely scientific 
point of view. To me you are simply a field of battle in 
which an invading army of tubercle bacilli struggles with a 
patriotic force of phagocytes. Having made a promise to 
your wife, which my principles will not allow me to break, 
to stimulate those phagocytes, I will stimulate them. 
And I take no further responsibility. [He flings simself 
back in his seat exhausted |. 

sik PATRICK. Well, Mr Dubedat, as Sir Ralph has very 
kindly offered to take charge of your case, and as the two 
minutes I promised you are up, I must ask you to excuse 
me. [He rises]. 

Louis. Oh, certainly. Ive quite done with you. [Résixg 
and holding up the sketch block| 'There! While youve been 
talking, Ive been doing. What is there left of your moral- 
izing? Only a little carbonic acid gas which makes the 
room unhealthy. What is there left of my work? That 
Look at it. [Ridgeon rises to look at it). 


Act lI The Doctor’s Dilemma 71 


siR PATRICK [eho fas come down to him from the throne] 
You young rascal, was it drawing me you were? 

Louis. Of course. What else ? 

SIR PATRICK [fakes the drawing from him and grunts ab- 
provingly| Thats rather good. Dont you think so, Colly? 

ripGEON. Yes. So good that I should like to have it. 

sik PATRICK. Thank ycu; but I should like to have it 
myself, What d’ye think, Walpole? 

WALPOLE [rising and coming over to look] No, by Jove: J 
must nave this. 

Louis. I wish I could afford to give it to you, Sir Patrick. 
But I’d pay five guineas socner than part with it. 

ripGeon. Oh, for that matter, I will give you six for it. 

WALPOLE. Ten. 

Louis. I think Sir Patrick is morally entitled to it, as he 
sat for it. May I send it to your house, Sir Patrick, for 
twelve guineas? 

SIR PATRICK. Twelve guineas! Not if you were President 
of the Royal Academy, young man. [He gives him back the 
drawing decisively and turns away, taking up his hat]. 

Louis [to B. B.] Would you like to take it at twelve, 
Sir Ralph? 

B. B. [coming between Louis and Walpole| Twelve guineas? 
Thank you: I'll take it at that. [He tckes it and presents it 
to Sir Patrick]. Accept it from me, Paddy; and may you 
long be spared to contemplate it. 

sin PATRICK. Thank you. [He puts the drawing into bis hat]. 

B. B. I neednt settle with you now, Mr. Dubedat: my 
fees will come to more than that. [He also retrieves his hat]. 

Louis [ixdignantly] Well, of all the mean—[words fail 
him]! Vd let myself be shot sooner than do a thing like 
that. I consider youve stolen that drawing. 

sIR PATRICK [drily] So weve converted you to a belief in 
morality after all, eh? 

Louis. Yah! [To Walpole] Vl do another one for you, 
Walpole, if youll let me have the ten you promised. 

WALPOLE. Very good. I'll pay on delivery. 


72 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act II 


Louis. Oh! What do you take me for? Have you no 
confidence in my honor? 

waLpoLe. None whatever. 

Louis. Oh well, of course if you feel that way, you cant 
help it. Before you go, Sir Patrick, let me fetch Jennifer. I 
know she’d like to see you, if you dont mind. [He goes to 
the inner door}. And now, before she comes in, one word. 
Youve all been talking here pretty freely about me—in my 
own house too. J dont mind that: I’m a manand can take 
care of myseif. But when Jennifer comes in, please remem- 
ber that she’s a lady, and that you are supposed to be gentle- 
men. [He goes out}. 

waLPoLe. Well!!! [He gives the situation up as indescrib- 
able, and goes for his hat]. 

ripGEoN. Damn his impudence! 

B.B. I shouldnt be at all surprised to learn that he’s well 
connected. Whenever I meet dignity and self-possession 
without any discoverable basis, I diagnose good family.. 

RIDGEON. Diagnose artistic genius, B. B. ‘Thats what saves 
his self-respect. 

SIR PATRICK. The world is made like that. The decent 
fellows are always being lectured and put out of counte- 
nance by the snobs. 

B. B. [altogether refusing to accept this] Iam not out of 
countenance. I should like, by Jupiter, to see the man who 
could put me out of countenance. [Sennifer comes in}. Ah, 
Mrs Dubedat! And how are we to-day? 

MRS DUBEDAT [shaking hands with him| ‘Thank you all 
so much for coming. [Ste shakes Walpole’s tand]. Thank 


you, Sir Patrick [she shakes Sir Patrick's}. Oh, life has been ; 


worth living since I have known you. Since Richmond I 
have not known a moment’s fear. And it used to be nothing 
but fear. Wont you sit down and tell me the result of the 
consultation? 

wALpoLe. I’ll go, if you dont mind, Mrs Dubedat. | 
have an appointment. Before I go, let me say that I am 
quite agreed with my colleagues here as to the character of 





Act III The Doctor’s Dilemma 73 


the case. As to the cause and the remedy, thats not my 
business: I’m only a surgeon; and these gentlemen are 
physicians and will advise you. I may have my own views: 
in fact ] have them; and they are perfectly well known 
to my colleagues. If I am needed—and needed I shall be 
finally—they know where to find me; and I am always at 
your service. So for to-day, good-bye. [He goes out, leaving 
Fennifer much puzzled by bis unexpected withdrawal and formal 
manner |. 

sir PaTRicK. I also will ask you to excuse me, Mrs 
Dubedat. 

RIDGEON [anxiously] Are you going? 

sIR PATRICK. Yes: I can be of no use here; and I must 
be getting back. As you know, maam, I’m not in practice 
now; and I shall not bein charge of the case. It rests 
between Sir Colenso Ridgeon and Sir Ralph Bloomfield 
Bonington. They know my opinion. Good afternoon to 
you, maam. [He bows and makes for the door]. 

Mrs puBEDAT [detaining him] Theres nothing wrong, is 
there? You dont think Louis is worse, do you? 

sin PATRICK. No: he’s not worse. Just the same as at 
Richmond. 

MRs DUBEDAT. Oh, thank you: you frightened me. Ex- 
cuse me. 

siIR PATRICK. Dont mention it, maam. [He goes out]. 

B. B. Now, Mrs. Dubedat, if I am to take the patient in 
hand— 

mrs puBepaT [apprehensively, with a glance at Ridgeon] 
You! But I thought that Sir Colenso— 

B. B. [eaming with the conviction that he is giving her a most 
gratifying surprise] My dear lady, your husband shall have 
Me. 

MRS DUBEDAT. But— 

p.B. Not a word: it is a pleasure to me, for your sake. 
Sir Colenso Ridgeon will be in his proper place, in the bac- 
teriological laboratory. J shall be in my proper place, at 
the bedside. Your husband shall be treated exactly as if he 


74. The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


were a member of the royal family. [Mrs Dubedat uneasy, 
again is about to protest}. No gratitude: it would embarrass 
me, I assure you. Now, may I ask whether you are parti- 
cularly tied to these apartments. Of course, the motor has 
, annihilated distance; but I confess that ifyou were rather 
nearer to me, it would be a little more convenient. 

MRS DUBEDAT. You see, this studio and flat are self- 
contained, I have suffered so much in lodgings. The 
servants are so frightfully dishonest. 

p. B. Ah! Are they? Are they? Dear me! 

MRS DUBEDAT. I was never accustomed to lock things up. 
And I missed so many small sums. At last a dreadful 
thing happened. I missed a five-pound note. It was traced 
to the housemaid ; and she actually said Louis had given 
it to her. And he wouldnt let me do anything: he is so - 
sensitive that these things drive him mad. 

B. B. Ah—hm—ha—yes—say no more, Mrs Dubedat: 
you shall not move. If the mountain will not come to 
Mahomet, Mahomet must come to the mountain. Now I 
must be off. I will write and make an appointment. We 
shall begin stimulating the phagocyteson—on—probably on 
Tuesday next; but I will let you know. Depend on me; 
dont fret; eat regularly; sleep well ; keep your spirits up; 
keep the patient cheerful ; hope for the best; no tonic like 
a charming woman; no medicine like cheerfulness; no 
resource like science; good-bye, good-bye, good-bye. 
[Having shaken hands—she being too overwhelmed to speak— 
he goes out, stopping tosay to Ridgzon| On Tuesday morning 
send me down a tube of some really stiff anti-toxin. Any 
kind will do. Dont forget. Good-bye, Colly. [He goes out’. 

ripGEON. You look quite discouraged again. [She is almost 
in tears]. Whats the matter? Are you disappointed? 

MRS DUBEDAT. I know I ought to be very grateful. Be- 
lreve me, I am very grateful. But—-but— 

RIDGEON. Well? 

MRS DUBEDaT. I had set my heart on your curing Louis. 

ripGzoN. Well, Sir Ralph Bloomfield Bonington— 


Act I The Doctor’s Dilemma Ta 


mRs DuBEDAT. Yes, I know, I know. It is a great privilege 
to have him. But oh, I wish it had been you. I know it’s 
unreasonable; I cant explain; but I had such a strong in- 
stinct that you would cure him. I dont—I cant feel the 
same about Sir Ralph. You promised me. Why did you 
give Louis up? 

ripGzon. I explained to you. I cannot take another case. 

Mrs DuBEDAT. But at Richmond? 

ripceon. At Richmond I thought I could make room for 
one more case. But my old friend Dr Blenkinsop claimed 
that place. His lung is attacked. 

Mrs DuUBEDAT [attaching no importance whatever to Blen- 
kinsop| Do you mean that elderly man—that rather silly— 

RIDGEON [sternly] I mean the gentleman that dined with 
us: an excellent and honest man, whose life is as valuable 
as anyone else’s. I have arranged that I shall take his case, 
and that Sir ‘Ralph Bloomfield Bonington shall take Mr 
Dubedat’s. 

Mrs DuBEDAT [furning indignantly on him] I see what it 
is. Oh! it is envious, mean, cruel. And I thought that 
you would be above such a thing. 

RipGEoN. What do you mean? 

Mrs DuBEDAT. Oh, do you think I dont know? do you 
think it has never happened before? Why does everybody 
turn against him? Can you not forgive him for being 
superior to you? for being cleverer? for being braver? for 
being a great artist? 

ripGEon. Yes: I can forgive him for all that. 

Mrs DuBEDAT. Well, have you anything to say against 
him? I have challenged everyone who has turned against 
him—challenged them face to face to tell me any wrong 
thing he has done, any ignoble thought he has uttered. 
They have always confessed that they could not tell me 
one. I challenge you now. What do you accuse him of? 

RIDGEON, I am like all the rest. Face to face, I cannot 
tell you one thing against him. 

MRS DUBEDAT [wot satisfied] But your manner is changed. 


76 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


And you have broken your promise to me to make room 
for him as your patient. 

RiDGEON. I think you are a little unreasonable. You have 
had the very best medical advice in London for him; and 
his case has been taken in hand by a leader of the profes- 
sion. Surely— 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh, it is so cruel to keep telling me that. 
It seems all right; and it puts mein the wrong. But I am 
not inthe wrong. I have faith in you; and I have no faith 
in the others. We have seen so many doctors: I have come 
to know at last when they are only talking and can do 
nothing. It is different with you. I feel that you know. 
You must listen to me, doctor. [With sudden misgiving] 
Am I offending you by calling you doctor instead of remem- 
bering your title? 

RiDGEON. Nonsense. Iam a doctor. But mind you dont 
call Walpole one. 

Mrs DuBEDaT. I dont care about Mr Walpole: it is you who 
must befriend me. Oh, will you please sit down and listen 
to me just for a few minutes. [He assents with a grave in- 
clination, and sits on the sofa. She sits on the easel chair). Thank 
you. I wont keep you long; but I must tell you the whole 
truth. Listen. I know Louis as nobody else in the world 
knows him or ever can know him. I am his wife. I know 
he has little faults: impatiences, sensitivenesses, even little 
selfishnesses that are too trivial for him to notice. I know 
that he sometimes shocks people about money because he 
is so utterly above it, and cant understand the value ordi- 
nary people set on it. Tell me: did he—did he borrow 
any money from you? 

RiDGEON. He asked me for some—once. 

Mrs DUBEDaT [tears again in her eyes] Oh, I am so sorry 
—so sorry. But he will never do it again: I pledge you 
my word for that. He has given me his promise: here in 
this room just before you came; and he is incapable of 
breaking his word. That was his only real weakness; and 
now it is conquered and done with for ever. 


Act Il The Doctor’s Dilemma TF, 


RIDGEON. Was that really his only weakness? 

MRS DUBEDAT. He is perhaps sometimes weak about 
women, because they adore him so, and are always laying 
traps for him. And of course when he says he doesnt 
believe in morality, ordinary pious people think he must 
be wicked. You can understand, cant you, how all this 
starts a great deal of gossip about him, and gets repeated 
until even good friends get set against him? 

riDGEON. Yes: I understand. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh, if you only knew the other side of 
him as I do! Do you know, doctor, that if Louis dis- 
honored himself by a really bad action, I should kill my- 
self. 

ripGeon. Come! dont exaggerate. 

MRs DUBEDAT. I should. You dont understand that, you 
east country people. 

RIDGEON. You did not see much of the world in Corn- 
wall, did you? 

Mrs puBEDaT [maf/vely] Oh yes. I saw a great deal 
every day of the beauty of the world—more than you ever 
see here in London. But I saw very few people, if that is 
what you mean. I was an only child. 

RipGEON. That explains a good deal. 

Mrs puBEDaT. I had a great many dreams; but at last 
they all came to one dream. 

RIDGEON [with halfa sigh] Yes, the usual dream. 

MRS DUBEDAT [surprised] Is it usual ? 

ripceon. As I guess. You havnt yet told me what it 
was. 

MRS DUBEDAT. J didnt want to waste myself. I could do 
nothing myself; but I had a little property and I could 
help with it. I had even a little beauty: dont think me 
vain for knowing it. I knew that men of genius always had 
a terrible struggle with poverty and neglect at first. My 
dream was to save one of them from that, and bring some 
charm and happiness into his life. I prayed Heaven to send 
me one. I firmly believe that Louis was guided to me in 


78 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act III 


answer to my prayer. He was no more like the other men 
I had met than the Thames Embankment is like our 
Cornish coasts. He saw everything that I saw, and drew it 
for me. He understood everything. He came to me like a 
child. Only fancy, doctor: he never even wanted to marry 
me: he never thought of the things other men think of! 
I had to propose it myself. Then he said he had no money. 
When I told him I had some, he said “Oh, all right,” just 
like a boy. He is still like that, quite unspoiled, a man in 
his thoughts, a great poet and artist in his dreams, and a 
child in his ways. I gave him myself and all I had that he 
might grow to his full height with plenty of sunshine. If 
I lost faith in him, it would mean the wreck and failure of 
my life. I should go back to Cornwall and die. I could 
show you the very cliff I should jump off. You must cure 
him: you must make him quite well again for me. I know 
that you can do it and that nobody else can. I implore you 
not to refuse what Iam going to ask you todo. Take Louis 
yourself; and let Sir Ralph cure Dr Blenkinsop. 

ripGEON [s/ow/y] Mrs Dubedat: do you really believe 
in my knowledge and skill as you say you do? 

Rs DuBEDAT. Absolutely. I do not give my trust by 
halves. 

ripGEON. I know that. Well, Iam going to test you— 
hard. Will you believe me when I tell you that I under- 
stand what you have just told me; that I have no desire 
but to serve you in the most faithful friendship; and that 
your hero must be preserved to you. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh forgive me. Forgive what I said. You 
will preserve him to me. 

ripceon. At all hazards. [She kisses his hand. He rises 
hastily]. No: you have not heard the rest. [Se rises too]. 
You must believe me when I tell you that the one chance 
of preserving the hero lies in Louis being in the care of 
Sir Ralph. 

mrs puBEDAT [firmly] You say so: I have no more 
doubt: I believe you. Thank you. 


ActIll The Doctor’s Dilemma 79 


RIDGEON, Good-bye. [She takes his hand]. I hope this will 
be a lasting friendship. 

mrs puBepaT. It will. My friendships end only with 
death. 

RIDGEON. Death ends everything, doesnt it? Good-bye. 

With a sigh and a look of pity at her which she does not 
understand, he goes. 





ACT IV 


The studio. The easel is pushed back to the wall. Cardinal 
Death, holding his scythe and hour-glass like a sceptre and globe, 
sits on the throne. On the hat-stand hang the hats of Sir Patrick 
and Bloomfield Bonington. Walpole, just come in, is hanging 
up his beside them. There is a knock. He opens the door and 
finds Ridgeon there. 


waLPoLe. Hallo, Ridgeon! 

They come into the middle of the room together, taking off 
their gloves. 

ripceon. Whats the matter? Have you been sent for, 
too? 

waLPoLe. Weve all been sent for. Ive only just come: 
I havnt seen him yet. The charwoman says that old 
Paddy Cullen has been here with B. B. ror the last half-hour. 
[Sir Patrick, with bad news in his face, enters from the inner 
room). Well: whats up? 

SIR PATRICK. Go in and see. B. B. is in there with 
him. 

Walpole goes. Ridgeonis about to follow him; but Sir Patrick 
stops him with a look. 

RipGEON. What has happened? 

SIR PATRICK. Do you remember Jane Marsh’s arm? 

RIDGEON. Is that whats happened? 

sIR PATRICK. Thats whats happened. His lung has gone 


80 





Act IV The Doctor’s Dilemma 81° 


like Jane’s arm. I never saw such a case. He has got 
through three months galloping consumption in three 
days. 

ripczon. B. B. got in on the negative phase. 

sik PaTRicK. Negative or positive, the lad’s done for. 
He wont last out the afternoon. He’ll go suddenly: Ive 
often seen it. 

R1pDGEON. So long as he goes before his wife finds him 
out, 7 dont care. I fully expected this. 

sin PATRICK [dri/y] It’s a little hard on a lad to be killed 
because his wife has too high an opinion of him. Fortunately 
few of us are in any danger of that. 

Sir Ralph comes from the inner room and hastens between 
them, humanely concerned, but professionally elate and com- 
municative. 

B. B. Ah, here you are, Ridgeon. Paddy’s told you, of 
course. . 

RIDGEON. Yes. 

B. B. It’s an enormously interesting case. You know, 
Colly, by Jupiter, if I didnt know as a matter of scientific 
fact that I’d been stimulating the phagocytes, I should say 
I’d been stimulating the other things. What is the ex- 
planation of it, Sir Patrick? How do you account for it, 
Ridgeon? Have we over-stimulated the phagocytes? Have 
they not only eaten up the bacilli, but attacked and 
destroyed the red corpuscles as well? a possibility suggested 
by the patient’s pallor. Nay, have they finally begun to 
prey on the lungs themselves? Or on one another? I shall 
write a paper about this case. 

Walpole comes back, very serious, even shocked. He comes 
between B. B. and Ridgeon. 

WALPoLe. Whew! B. B.: youve done it this time. 

B. B. What do you mean? 

watpote. Killed him. The worst case of neglected 
blood-poisoning I ever saw. It’s too late now to do any- 
thing. He’d die under the anesthetic. 

B. B. [offended] Killed! Really, Walpole, if your mono- 


G 


82 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IV 


mania were not well known, I should take such an ex- 
pression very seriously. 

SIR PATRICK. Come come! When youve both killed as 
many people as I have in my time youll feel humble 
enough about it. Come and look at him, Colly. 

Ridgeon and Sir Patrick go into the inner room. 

waLPote. I apologize, B. B. But it’s blood-poisoning. 

B. B. [recovering his irresistible good nature) My dear 
Walpole, everything is blood-poisoning. But upon my 
soul, I shall not use any of that stuff of Ridgeon’s again. 
What made me so sensitive about what you said just now 
is that, strictly between ourselves, Ridgeon has cooked our 
young friend’s goose. 

Jennifer, worried and distressed, but always gentle, comes 
between them fron the inner room, She wears a nurse’s apron. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Sir Ralph: what am I to do? That man 
who insisted on seeing me, and sent in word that his busi- 
ness was important to Louis, is a newspaper man. A para- 
graph appeared in the paper this morning saying that Louis 
is seriously ill; and this man wants to interview him about 
it. How can people be so brutally callous? 

‘WALPOLE [moving vengefully towards the door| You just 
leave me to deal with him! 

MRS DUBEDAT [stopping Aim] But Louis insists on seeing 
him. he almost began to cry about it. And he says he 
cant bear his room any longer. He says he wants to [she 
struggles with a sob|—to die in his studio. Sir Patrick says 
let him have his way: it can do no harm. What shall 
we do? 

B. B. [excouragingly| Why, follow Sir Patrick’s excellent 
advice, of course. As he says, it can do him no harm; and 
it will no doubt do him good—a great deal of good. He 
will be much the better for it. 

mrs DuBEDAT [@ 4ttle cheered] Will you bring the man 
up here, Mr Walpole, and tell him that he may see Louis, 
but that he mustnt exhaust him by talking? [Walpole nods 
and goes out by the outer door), Sir Ralph: dont be angry 





Act1iV The Doctor’s Dilemma 83 


with me; but Louis will die if he stays here. I must take 
him to Cornwall. He will recover there. 

B. B. [brightening wonderfully, as if Dubcdat were already 
saved) Cornwall! The very place for him! Wonderful 
for the lungs. Stupid of me not to think of it before. 
You are his best physician after all, dear lady. An inspira- 
tion! Cornwall: of course, yes, yes, yes. 

‘MRS DUBEDAT [comforted and touched| You are so kind, 
Sir Ralph. But dont give me much hope or I shall cry; 
and Louis cant bear that. 

B. B. [gently putting his protecting arm round her shoulders] 
Then let us come back to him and help to carry him in. 
Cornwail! of course, of course. The very thing! [Tey 
go together into the bedroom], 

Walpole returns with The Newspaper Man, a cheerful, 
affable young man who is disabled for ordinary business pursuits 
by a congenital erroneousness which renders him incapable of 
describing accurately anything he sees, or understanding or 
reporting accurately anything he hears. As the only employ- 
ment in which these defects do not matter is journalism (for a 
newspaper, not having to act on its descriptions and reports, 
but only to sel them to idly curious people, has nothing but 
-onor to lose by inaccuracy and unveracity), he has perforce 
become a journalist, and has to keep up an air of bigh spirits 
through a daily struggle with his cwn illiteracy and the pre- 
cariousness of bis employment. He has a note-book, and occa- 
sionally attempts to make a notes; but as he cannot write 
shorthand, and does not write with ease in any hand, he gener- 
ally gives it up as @ bad job before he succeeds in finishing a 
SENTENCE. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [looking round and making indecisive 
attempts at notes| This is the studio, I suppose. 

WALPOLE. Yes. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [evitti/y] Where he has his models, 
eh? 

WALPOLE [grimly irresponsive| No doubt. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Cubicle, you said it was? 


84 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IV 


WALPOLE. Yes, tubercle. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Which way do you spell it: is it 
c-u-b-i-c-a-l or c-l-e? 

waLpoLe. Tubercle, man, not cubical. [Spelling it for 
him] 'T-u-b-e-r-c-l-e. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Oh! tubercle. Some disease, I 
suppose. I thought he had consumption. Are you one of 
the family or the doctor? 

WALPOLE, I’m neither one nor the other. I am Mister 
Cutler Walpole. Put that down. Then put down Sir 
Colenso Ridgeon. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Pigeon? 

waLPoLe. Ridgeon. [Contemptuously snatching his book] 
Here: youd better let me write the names down for you: 
youre sure to get them wrong. That comes of belonging 
to an illiterate profession, with no qualifications and no 
public register. [He writes the particulars). 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Oh, I say: you have got your 
knife into us, havnt ycu? 

WALPOLE [vindictively] I wish I had: I’d make a better 
man of you. Now attend. [Shewing him the book] These 
are the names of the three doctors. This is the patient. 
This is the address. This is the name of the disease. [He 
shuts the book with a snap which makes the journalist blink, and 
returns it to him). Mr Dubedat will be brought in here 
presently. He wants to see you because he doesnt know 
how bad he is. We'll allow you to wait a few minutes to 
humor him; but if you talk to him, out you go. He may 
die at any moment. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [interested] Is he as bad as that? I 
say: Iam in luck to-day. Would you mind letting me 
photograph you? [He produces a camera}. Could you have 
a lancet or something in your hand? 

waLpoLe. Put it up. If you want my photograph you 
can get it in Baker Street in any of the series of celebrities. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. But theyll want to be paid. If you 
wouldnt mind [ fingering the camera}—? 


ActIV The Doctor’s Dilemma 85 


waLpoLe. 1 would. Put it up, I tell you. Sit down 
there and be quiet. 

The Newspaper Man quickly sits down on the piano stool as 
Dubedat, in an invalid’s chair, is wheeled in by Mrs Dubedat 
and Sir Ralph. They place the chair between the dais and the 
sofa, where the easel stood before. Louis is not changed as a 
robust man would be; and he is not scared. His eyes look 
larger; and he is so weak physically that he can hardly move, 
lying on his cushions with complete langucr; but bis mind ts 
active: it is making the most of bis condition, finding voluptu- 
ousness in languor and drama in death. They are all impressed, 
in spite of themselves, except Ridgeon, who is implacable. B.B. 
is entirely sympathetic and forgiving. Ridgeon follows the chair 
with a tray of milk and stimulants. Sir Patrick, who accom- 
panies him, takes the tea-table from the corner and places it 
behind the chair for the tray. B.B. takes the easel chair and 
places it for Jennifer at Dudcdat’s side, next the dais, from 
which the lay figure ogles the dying artist. B. B. then returns 
to Dubedat’s left. Fennifer sits. Walpole sits down on the 
edge of the dais. Ridgeon stands near him. 

Louis [4Assfully] Thats happiness. To be in a studio! 
Happiness! 

MRs DUBEDAT. Yes, dear. Sir Patrick says you may stay 
here as long as you like. 

Louis. Jennifer. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes, my darling. 

Louis. Is the newspaper man here? 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [g/id/y] Yes, Mr Dubedat: I’m here, 
at your service. Irepresent the press. I thought you might 
like to let us have a few words about—about—er—well, 
a few words on your illness, and your plans for the season. 

Louis, My plans for the season are very simple. I’m going 
to die. 

MRS DUBEDAT [fortvred ] Louis—dearest— 

Louis. My darling: I’m very weak and tired. Dont put 
on me the horrible strain of pretending that I dont know. 
Ive been lying there listening to the doctors—laughing to 


86 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IV 


myself. They know. Dearest: dont cry. It makes you 
ugly; and I cant bear that. [S4e dries her eyes and re- 
covers herself with a proud effort). I want you to promise 
me something. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes, yes: you know I will. [Jmploring/y] 
Only, my love, my love, dont talk: it will waste your 
strength. 

touts. No: it will only use it up. Ridgeon: give me 
something to keep me going for a few minutes—not one 
of your confounded anti-toxins, if you dont mind. I have 
some things to say before I go. 

RIDGEON [ooking at Sir Patrick} 1 suppose it can do no 
harm? [He pours out some spirit, and is about to add seda 
water when Sir Patrick corrects him). 

siR paTRICK. In milk. Dont set him coughing. 

Louis [after drinking] Jennifer. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes, dear. 

touts. If theres one thing I hate more than another, it’s 
a widow. Promise me that youll never be a widow. 

mrs puBeDAT. My dear, what do you mean? 

Louis. I want you to look beautiful. I want people to 
see in your eyes that you were married tome. The 
people in Italy used to point at Dante and say ‘There 
goes the man who has been in hell.” I want them to 
point at you and say “There goes a woman who has been in 
heaven.” It has been heaven, darling, hasnt it—sometimes ? 

MRS DUBEDAT. Qh yes, yes. Always, always. 

Louis. If you wear black and cry, people will say “Look at 
that miserable woman: her husband made her miserable.” 

mrs DUREDAT. No, never. You are the light and the 
blessing of my life. I never lived until I knew you. 

Louis [Azs eyes glistening] ‘Then you must always wear 
beautiful dresses and splendid magic jewels. Think of all 
the wonderful pictures I shall never paint. [Sse wins a 
terrible victory over @ sob}, Well, you must be trans- 
figured with all the beauty of those pictures. Men must 
get such dreams from seeing you as they never could get 


ActIV. The Doctor’s Dilemma 87 


from any daubing with paints and brushes. Painters must 
paint you as they never painted any mortal woman before. 
There must be a great tradition of beauty, a great atmo- 
sphere of wonder and romance. That is what men must 
always think cf when they think of me. That is the sort 
of immortality I want. You can make that for me, 
Jennifer. There are lots of things you dont understand 
that every woman in the street understands; but you can 
understand that and do it as nobody else can. Promise 
me that immortality. Promise me you will not make a 
little hell of crape and crying and undertaker’s horrors 
and withering flowers and all that vulgar rubbish. 

MRS DUBEDAT. I promise. But all that is far off, dear. 
You are to come to Cornwall with me and get well. Sir 
Ralph says so. 

Louis. Poor old B. B.! 

B. B. [affected to tears, turns away and whispers to Sir 
Patrick} Poor fellow! Brain going. 

Louis. Sir Patrick’s there, isnt he? 

SIR PATRICK. Yes, yes. I’m here. 

Louis. Sit down, wont you? It’s a shame to keep you 
standing about. 

sIR PATRICK, Yes, yes, Thank you. All right. 

Louis. Jennifer. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes, dear. 

Louis [with a strange look of delight] Do you remember 
the burning bush? 

mrs puBEDAT. Yes, yes. Oh, my dear, how it strains my 
heart to remember it now! : 

Louis. Does it? It fills me with joy. Tell them about it. 

mrs puBEDaT. It was nothing—only that once in my old 
Cornish home we lit the first fire of the winter; and? 
when we looked through the window we saw the flames 
dancing in a bush in the garden. 

Louis. Such a color! Garnet color. Waving like silk. 
Liquid lovely flame flowing up through the bay leaves, 
end not burning them. Well, I shall be a flame like 


88 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IV 


that. I’m sorry to disappoint the poor little worms; but 
the last of me shall be the flame in the burning bush. 
Whenever you see the flame, Jennifer, that will be me. 
Promise me that I shall be burnt. 

mrs DuBEDAT. Oh, if I might be with you, Louis ! 

tours, No: you must always be in the garden when 
the bush flames. You are my hold on the world: you are 
my immortality. Promise. 

Mrs DuUBEDAT. I’m listening. I shall not forget. You 
know that I promise. 

Louis. Well, thats about all; except that you are to 
hang my pictures at the one-man show. I can trust your 
eye. You wont Ict anyone else touch them. 

MRS DUBEDAT. You Can trust me. 

Louis..Then theres nothing more to worry about, 1s 
there? Give me some more of that milk. I’m fearfully 
tired; but if I stop talking Ishant begin again. [Sir Ralph 
gives him a drink. He takes it and looks up quaintly). 1 say, 
B. B., do you think anything would stop you talking? 

B. B. [a/most unmanned | He confuses me with you, Paddy. 
Poor fellow! Poor fellow! 

Louis [using] I used to be awfully afraid of death; but 
now it’s come I have no fear; and I’m perfectly happy. 
Jennifer. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Yes, dear? 

Louis. Ill tell you a secret. I used to think that our 
marriage was all an affectation, and that I’d break loose 
and run away some day. But now that I’m going to be 
broken loose whether I like it or not, I’m perfectly fond 
of you, and perfectly satisfied because I’m going to live 
as part of you and not as my troublesome self. 

mrs pbuBEpaT [/cartbroken] Stay with me, Louis. Oh, 
dont leave me, dearest. 

Louis. Not that l’m selfish. With all my faults I dont 
think Ive ever been really selfish. No artist can: Art is 
too large for that. You will marry again, Jennifer. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Oh, how can you, Louis? 


ActIV The Doctor’s Dilemma 89 


Louis [insisting childishly] Yes, because people who have 
found marriage happy always marry again, Ah, J shant be 
jealous. [S/y/y] But dont talk to the other fellow too 
much about me: he wont like it. [ A/most chuckling] I 
shall be your lover all the time; but it will be a secret 
from him, poor devil ! 

sIR PATRICK. Come! youve talked enough. Try to rest 
awhile. 

Louis [wearily] Yes: I’m fearfully tired; but I shall 
have a long rest presently. I have something to say to 
you fellows. Youre all there, arnt you? I’m too weak to 
see anything but Jennifer’s bosom. That promises rest. 

RIDGEON. We are all here. 

Louis [startled] That voice sounded devilish. Take care, 
Ridgeon: my ears hear things that other people’s ears 
cant. Ive been thinking—thinking, I’m cleverer than you 
imagine, 

SIR PATRICK [whispering to Ridgeon] Youve got on his 
nerves, Colly. Slip out quietly. 

RIDGEON [apart to Sir Patrick] Would you deprive the 
dying actor of his audience? 

Louis [fis face lighting up faintly with mischievous glee] I 
heard that, Ridgeon. That was good. Jennifer, dear: be 
kind to Ridgeon always; because he was the last man who 
amused me. 

RIDGEON [relentless] Was I? 

Louis, But it’s not true. It’s you who are still on the 
stage. I’m half way home already. 

Mrs DuBEDAT [fo Ridgeon] What did you say? 

Louis [answering for him} Nothing, dear. Only one of 
those little secrets that men keep among themselves. 
Well, all you chaps have thought pretty hard things of 
me, and said them. 

B. B. [guite overcome] No, no, Dubedat. Not at all. 

tous. Yes, you have, I know what you all think 
of me. Dont imagine I’m sore about it. I forgive 
you, 


go The Doctor’s Dilemma = Act 1V 


WALPOLE [znvoluntarily] Well, damn me! [Ashamed] I 
beg your pardon. 

Louis, That was old Walpole, I know. Dont grieve, 
Walpole, I’m perfectly happy. I’m not in pain. I dont 
want to live. Ive escaped from myself. I’m in heaven, 
immortal in the heart of my beautiful Jennifer. I’m not 
afraid, and not ashamed. [Reflectively, puzzling it out for 
himself weakly| 1 know that in an accidental sort of way, 
struggling through the unreal part of life, I havnt always 
been able to live up to my ideal. But in my own real 
world I have never done anything wrong, never denied 
my faith, never been untrue to myself. Ive been threat- 
ened and blackmailed and insulted and starved. But Ive 
played the game. Ive fought the good fight. And now 
it’s all over, theres an indescribable peace. [He feebly folds 
his hands and utters his creed]: \ believe in Michael Angelo, 
Velasquez, and Rembrandt; in the might of design, the 
mystery of color, the redemption of all things by Beauty 
everlasting, and the message of Art that has made these 
hands blessed. Amen. Amen. [He closes his eyes and es still). 

mrs puBEpaT [4reathless] Louis: are you— 

Walpole rises and comes quickly to see whether he is dead, 

Louis. Not yet, dear. Very nearly, but not yet. i 
should like to rest my head on your bosom; only it would 
tire you. 

MRs DUBEDAT. No, no, no, darling: how could you tire 
me? [Ste Lifts him so that he lies in her bosom]. 

Louis. Thats good. Thats real. 

MRS DUBEDAT. Dont spare me, dear. Indeed indeed 
you will not tire me. Lean on me with all your weight. 

“S.Louis [with a sudden half return of his normal strength and 
comfort| Jinny Gwinny: I think I shall recover after all. 
[Sir Patrick looks significantly at Riaeee, mutely warning him 
that this is the end). 

MRs DUBEDAT [Aopefully] Yes, yes: you shall. 

Lours. Because I suddenly want to sleep. Just an 
ordinary sleep. 


ActIV The Doctor’s Dilemma g! 


mrs DuBEDAT [rocking fim] Yes, dear. Sleep. [He seems 
to go to sleep. Walpole makes another movement. She protests). 
Sh-sh ; please dont disturb him. [His Lips move]. What did 
you say, dear? [lm great distress] I cant listen without 
moving him. [His kps move again: Walpole bends down and 
listens]. 

WALPOLE. He wants to know is the newspaper man 
here. : 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [exciteds for le has been enjoying him- 
self enormously] Yes, Mr Dubedat. Here I am. 

Walpole raises his hand warningh to silence him. Sir Ralph 
sits down quietly on the sofa and frankly buries his face in his 
handkerchief. 

MRS DUBEDAT [evith great relief] Oh thats right, dear: 
dont spare me: lean with all your weight on me. Now 
you are really resting. 

Sir Patrick quickly comes forward and feels Louis's pulse; 
then takes him by the shoulders. 

sik PATRICK. Let me put him back on the pillow, maam. 
He will be better so. 

Mrs DUBEDAT [fiteously] Oh no, please, please, doctor. 
He is not tiring me; and he will be so hurt when he 
wakes if he finds I have put him away. 

sR PATRICK. He will never wake again. [He takes the 
body from her and replaces it in the chair. Ridgeon, unmoved, 
lets down the back and makes a bier of it}. 

mrs DuBEDAT [who fas unexpectedly sprung to her feet, and 
stands dry-eyed and stately| Was that death? 

WALPOLE. Yes. 

MRS DUBEDAT [with complete dignity] Will you wait for 
me a moment. I will come back. [Ste goes out}. 

WALPOLE. Ought we to follow her? Is she in her right 
senses? 

sir PATRICK [with quiet conviction] Yes. Shes all right. 
Leave her alone. She'll come back. 

ripGEON [callously] Let us get this thing out of the way 
before she comes. 


92 The Doctor’s Dilemma = Act IV 


B. B. [rising, shocked] My dear Colly! The poor lad! 
He died splendidly. 

siR PATRICK. Aye! that is how the wicked die. 

For there are no bands in their death; 

But their strength is firm: 

They are not in trouble as other men. 
No matter: it’s not for us to judge. He’s in another world 
now. : 

WALPOLE. Borrowing his first five-pound note there, prob- 
ably. 

RIDGEON. J said the other day that the most tragic thing 
in the world is a sick doctor. I was wrong. The most 
‘ tragic thing in tle world is a man of genius who is not also 
a man of honor. 

Ridgeon and Walpele wheel the chair into the recess. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [fo Sir Ralph] I thought it shewed 
a very nice feeling, his being so particular about his wife 
going into proper mourning for him and making her pro- 
mise never to marry again. 

B. B. [impressively] Mrs Dubedat is not in a position to 
carry. the interview any further. Neither are we. 

siR PATRICK. Good afternoon to you. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Mrs Dubedat said she was coming 
back. 

B. B. After you have gone. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Do you think she would give mea 
feev words on How It Feels to be a Widow? Rather a good 
title for an article, isnt it? 

B. B. Young man: if you wait until Mrs Dubedat comes 
back, you will be able to write an article on How It Feels 
to be Turned Out of the House. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN [uaconvinced] You think she’d rather 
not— 

B. B. [cutting him short] Good day to you. [Giving him a 
visiting-card| Mind you get my name correctly. Good day. 

THE NEWSPAPER MAN. Good day. Thank you. [Vagzely 
trying to read the card) Mr— 


ActtIV The Doctor’s Dilemma 93 


B. B. No, not Mister. This is your hat, I think [giving 
it to him]. Gloves? No, of course: no gloves. Good day 
to you. [He cdgeshim out at last; shuts the door on. him; 
and returns to Sir Patrick as Ridgeon and Walpole come back 
Jrom the recess, Walpole crassing the room to the hat-stand, and 
Ridgeon coming between Sir Ralph and Sir Patrick]. Poor 
fellow! Poor young fellow! How well he died! I feel a 
better man, really. 

sik PATRICK. When youre as old as I am, youll know 
that it matters very little how a man dies. What matters 
is, how he lives. Every fool that runs his nose against a 
bullet is a hero nowadays, because he dies for his country. 
Why dont he live for it to some purpose? 

B. B. No, please, Paddy: dont be hard on the poor lad. 
Not now, not now. After all, was he so bad? He had 
only two failings: money and women. Well, let us be 
honest. Tell the truth, Paddy. Dont be hypocritical, 
Ridgeon. Throw off the mask, Walpole. Are these two 
matters so well arranged at present that a disregard of the 
usual] arrangements indicates real depravity? 

wWaLpoLe. I dont mind his disregarding the usual arrange- 
ments. Confound the usual arrangements! Toa man of 
science theyre beneath contempt both as to money and 
women. What I mind is his disregarding everything except 
his own pocket and his own fancy. He didnt disregard 
the usual arrangements when theypaid him. Did he give 
us his pictures for nothing? Do you suppose he’d have 
hesitated to blackmail me if I’d compromised myself with 
his wife? Not he. 

SIR PATRICK. Dont waste your time wrangling over him. 
A blackguard’s a blackguard; an honest man’s an honest 
man; and neither of them will ever be at a loss for a 
religion or a morality to prove that their ways are the 
right ways. It’s the same with nations, the same with pro- 
fessions, the same all the world over and always will be. 

gp. B. Ah, well, perhaps, perhaps, perhaps. Still, de | 
mortuis nil nisi bonum, He died extremely well, — 


94 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act IV 


remarkably well. He has set us an example: let us en- 
deavor to follow it rather than harp on the weaknesses 
that have perished with him. I think it is Shakespear who 
says that the good that most men do lives after them: the 
evil lies interréd with their bones. Yes: interréd with 
their bones. Believe me, Paddy, we are all mortal. It is 
the common lot, Ridgeon. Say what you will, Walpole, 
Nature’s debt must be paid. If tis not to-day, twill be to- 
morrow. 

To-morrow and to-morrow and to-morrow 

After life’s fitful fever they sleep well 

And like this insubstantial bourne from which 


No traveller returns 
Leave not a wrack behind. 


Walpole is about to speak, but B, B., suddenly and vehemently 
proceeding, extinguishes him. 


Out, out, brief candle: 
For nothing canst thou to damnation add 
The readiness is all. 


watPoLe [gently; for B. B.'s feeling, absurdly expressed as 
it is, is too sincere and humane to be ridiculed] Yes, B. B. 
Death makes people go on like that. I dont know why i it 
should. but it does. By the way, what are we going to do? 
Ought we to clear out; or had we better wait and see 
whether Mrs Dubedat will come back? 

sin PATRICK. I think we’d better go. We can tell the 
charwoman what to do. 

They take their hats and go to the door. 

MRS DUBEDAT [coming from the inner door wonderfully and 
beautifully dressed, and radiant, carrying a great piece of 
purple silk, handsomely embroidered, over her arm] I’m so 
sorry to have kept you waiting. 

SIR PATRICK \ [amazed, all (Dont mention it, madam. 

B. B. together in | Not at all, not at all. 

RIDGEON 4 confused \By no means. 

WALPOLE murmur| \Xcdoesnt matter in the least. 





ActtIV ‘The Doctor’s Dilemma 95 


MRS DUBEDAT [coming to them] I felt that I must shake 
hands with his friends once before we part to-day. We 
have shared together a great privilege and a great happiness. 
I dont think we can ever think of ourselves as ordinary 
people again. We have had a wonderful experience; and 
that gives us a common faith, a common ideal, that nobody 
else can quite have. Life will always be beautiful to us: 
death will always be beautiful to us. May we shake hands 
on that? 

siR PATRICK [shaking hands] Remember: all letters had 
better be left to your solicitor. Let him open everything 
and settle everything. Thats the law, you know. 

MRs DuBEDAT. Oh, thank you: I didnt know. [Sir Patrick 

oes}. 
: WALPOLE. Good-bye. I blame myself: I should have 
insisted on operating. [He goes]. 

B. B. I will send the prope~ people: they will know 
what to do: you shall have no trouble. Good-bye, my 
dear lady. [He goes}. 

RiDGEON. Good-bye. [He offers his hand]. 

MRS DUBEDAT [drawing back with gentle majesty] I said 
his friends, Sir Colenso. [He bows and goes}. 

She unfolds ‘the great piece sf silk, and goes into the recess to 
cover her dead. 


ACT V 


One of the smaller Bond Street Picture Galleries. The 
entrance is from a picture shop. Nearly in the middle of the 
gallery there is a writing-table, at which the Secretary, fashion- 
ably dressed, sits with his back to the entrance, correcting cata- 
logue proofs. Some copies of a new book are on the desk, also 
the Secretary’s shining hat and a couple of magnifying glasses. 
At the side, on his left, a little behind him, is a small door 
marked Private. Near the same side is a cushioned bench 
parallel to the walls, which are covered with Dubedat’s works. 
Two screens, also covered with drawings, stand near the corners 
right and left of the entrance. 

Jennifer, beautifully dressed and apparently very happy and — 
prosperous, comes into the gallery through the private door. 


JENNIFER. Have the catalogues come yet, Mr Danby? 

THE SECRETARY. Not yet. 

JENNIFER. Whatashame! It’s a quarter past: the private 
view will begin in less than half an hour. 

THE SECRETARY. I think I’d better run over to the printers 
to hurry them up. 

JENNIFER. Oh, if you would be so good, Mr Danby. Pl! 
take your place while youre away. 

THE secRETARY. If anyone should come before the time 
dont take any notice. The commissionaire wont let any- 
one through unless he knows him. We have a few people 
who like to come before the crowd—people who really buy ; 


a6 


Act V The Doctor’s Dilemma 97 


and of course we're glad to see them. Have you seen the 
notices in Brush and Crayon and in The Easel ? 

JENNIFER [zdignantly] Yes : most disgraceful. They write 
quite patronizingly, as if they were Mr Dubedat’s superiors. 
After all the cigais and sandwiches they had from us on 
the press day, and all they drank, I really think it is in- 
famous that they should write like that. I hope you have 
not sent them tickets for to-day. 

THE SECRETARY. Oh, they wont come again: theres no 
lunch to-day. The advance copies of your book have come. 
[He indicates the new books}. 

JENNIFER [pouncing on a copy, wildly excitcd| Give it to 
me. Oh! excuse me a moment [she runs away with it 
through the private door], 

The Secretary takes a mirror from his drawer and smartens 
Limself before going out. Ridgeon comes in. 

RIDGEON. Good morning. May I look round, as usual, 
before the doors open ? 

THE SECRETARY. Certainly, Sir Colenso. I’m sorry the 
catalogues have not come : I’m just going to see about them. 
Heres my own list, if you dont mind. 

ripczon. Thanks. Whats this? [He takes up one of the 
new books). i 

THE SECRETARY. Thats just come in. An advance copy 
of Mrs Dubedat’s Life of her late husband. 

RIDGEON [reading the title|'The Story of a King of Men. 
By His Wife. [He Jooks at the portrait frontispiece]. Ay: 
there he is. You knew him here, I suppose. 

THE SECRETARY. Oh, we knew him. Better than she did, 
Sir Colenso, in some ways, perhaps. 

ripcEon. So did I. [ They look significantly at one another]. 
I'll take a look round. 

The Secretary puts on the shining hat and goes out. Ridgeon 
begins looking at the pictures. Presently he comes back to the 
table for a magnifying glass, and scrutinizes a drawing very 
closely. He sighs; shakes his head, as if constrained to admit 
the extraordinary fascination and merit of the work; then 

H 


98 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act V 


marks the Secretary’s list. Proceeding with his survey, he dis- 
appears behind the screen. Fennifer comes back with her book. 
A look round satisfies her that she is alone. She seats herself at 
the table and admires the memoir—her first printed book—ta 
her hearts content. Ridgeon re-appears, face to the wall, 
scrutinizing the drawings. After using his glass again, he 
steps back to get a more distant view of one of the larger 
pictures. She hastily closes the book at the sound; looks round ; 
recognizes him; and stares, petrified. He takes a further step 
back which brings him nearer to her. 

RIDGEON [shaking his head as before, ejaculates| Clever 
brute! [S/e flushes as though he had struck her. He turns to 
put the glass down on the desk, and finds himself face to face with 
her intent gaze]. I beg your pardon. I thought I was alone. 

JENNIFER [controlling herself, and speaking steadily and mean- 
ingly] 1 am glad we have met, Sir Colenso Ridgeon. I met 
Dr Blenkinsop yesterday. I congratulate you on a wonderful 
cure. 

RIDGEON [can find no words: makes an embarrassed gesture 
of assent after a moment's silence, and puts down the glass and 
the Secretary’s list on the table). 

JENNIFER. He looked the picture of health and strength 
and prosperity. [Se looks for a moment at the walls, con-. 
trasting Blenkinsop’s fortune with the artist’s fate]. 

RIDGEON [Z# low tones, still embarrassed| He has been 
fortunate. 

JENNIFER. Very fortunate. His life has been spared. 

RIDGEON. I mean that he has been made a Medical Officer 
of Health. He cured the Chairman of the Borough Council 
very successfully. 

JENNIFER. With your medicines ? 

r1pGEON. No. I believe it was with a pound of ripe 
greengages. : 

JENNIFER [with deep gravity] Funny ! 

ripGeon. Yes. Life does not cease to be funny when 
people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people 
laugh. 


Act V The Doctor’s Dilemma 99 


yenniFEer. Dr Blenkinsop said one very strange thing to me. 

RIDGEON. What was that ? 

yenniFER. He said that private practice in medicine ought 
to be put down by law. When I asked him why, he said 
that private doctors were ignorant licensed murderers. 

ripGEON. That is what the public doctor always thinks 
of the private doctor. Well, Blenkinsop ought to know. 
He was a private doctor long enough himself. Come! you 
have talked at me long enough. Talk to me. You have 
something to reproach me with. There is reproach in your 
face, in your voice: you are full of it. Out with it. 

JENNIFER. It is too late for reproaches now. When I 
turned and saw you just now, I wondered how you could 
come here coolly to look at his pictures. You answered the 
question. To you, he was only a clever brute. 

ripGeon [quivering] Oh, dont. You know I did not know 
you were here. 

JENNIFER [raising her head a little with a quite gentle 
impulse of pride| You think it only mattered because I heard 
it. As if it could touch me, or touch him! Dont you see 
that what is really dreadful is that to you living things have 
no souls. 

RIDGEON [with a sceptical shrug|' The soul is an organ I 
have not come across in the course of my anatomical work. 

JENNIFER. You know you would not dare to say such a 
silly thing as that to anybody but a woman whose mind 
you despise. If you dissected me you could not find my 
conscience. Do you think I have got none? 

RIDGEON. J have met people who had none. 

yenniFeR. Clever brutes? Do you know, doctor, that 
some of the dearest and most faithful friends I ever had 
were only brutes! You would have vivisected them. The 
dearest aud greatest of all my friends had a sort of beauty 
and affectionateness that only animals have. I hope you 
may never feel what I felt when J had to put him into the 
hands of men who defend the torture of animals because 
they are only brutes, 


o 


100 The Doctor’s Dilenima Act V 


RIDGEON. Well; did you find us so very cruel, after all? 
They tell me that though you have dropped me, you stay 
for weeks with the Bloomfield Boningtons and the Wal- 
poles. I think it must be true, because they never mention 
you to me now. 

JENNIFER. The animals in Sir Ralph’s house are like 
spoiled children. When Mr Walpole had to take a splinter 
out of the mastiff’s paw, I had to hold the poor dog myself ; 
and Mr Walpole had to turn Sir Ralph out of the room. 
And Mrs Walpole has to tell the gardener not to kill wasps 
when Mr Walpole is looking. But there are doctors who 
are naturally cruel ; and there are others who get used to 
cruelty and are callous about it. They blind themselves to 
the souls of animals ; and that blinds them to the souls of 
men and women. You made a dreadful mistake about 
Louis; but you would not have made it if you had not 
trained yourself to make the same mistake about dogs. 
You saw nothing in them but dumb orutes; and so you 
could see nothing in him but a clever brute. 

RIDGEON [with sudden resolution] I made no mistake what- 
ever about him. 

JENNIFER. Oh, doctor! 

RIDGEON [odstinately] I made no mistake whatever about 
him. 

JENNIFER. Have you forgotten that he died? 

RIDGEON [with a sweep of his hand towards the pictures) 
He isnot dead. Heisthere. [Taking wp the book] And there. 

JENNIFER [springing up with blazing eyes| Put that down. 
How dare you touch it? 

Ridgeon, amazed at the fierceness of the outburst, puts it 
down with a deprecatory shrug. She takes it up and looks at tt 
as if he had profaned a relic. 

RIDGEON. I am very sorry. I see I had better go. 

JENNIFER [pitting the book docvx] I beg your pardon. I— 
I forgot myself. But it is not yet—it is a private copy. 

RIDGEON. But for me it would have been a very different 
book. 


Act V The Doctor’s Dilemma IOI 


JENNIFER. But for you it would have been a longer one. 

RipGEon. You know then that I killed him? 

JENNIFER [suddenly moved and softened) Oh, doctor, if 
you acknowledge that—if you have confessed it to yourself 
—if you realize what you have done, then there is forgive- 
ness. I trusted in your strength instinctively at first; then 
TI thought I had mistaken callousness for strength. Can you 
blame me? But if it was really strength—if it was only 
such a mistake as we all make sometimes—it will make me 
so happy to be friends with you again. 

RIDGEON. I tell youI made no mistake. I cured Blenkin- 
sop: was there any mistake there? 

JENNIFER. He recovered. Oh, dont be foolishly proud, 
doctor. Confess to a failure, and save our friendship. Re- 
member, Sir Ralph gave Louis your medicine; and it 
made hiza worse. 

ripczon. I cant be your friend on false pretences. 
Something has got me by the throat: the truth must come 
out. I used that medicine myself on Blenkinsop, It did 
not make him worse. It is a dangerous medicine: it cured 
Blenkinsop: it killed Louis Dubedat. When I handle it, 
itcures. When another man handles it, it kills—sometimes. 

JENNIFER [waively: not yet taking it all in] ‘Then why did 
you let Sir Ralph give it to Louis? 

ripGeon. I’m going to tell you. I did it because I was 
in love with you. 

JENNIFER [innocently surprised] In lo—You! an elderly 
man! 

RIDGEON [thunderstruck, raising his fists to heaven| Dube- 
dat: thou art avenged! [He drops his hands and collapses on 
the bench]. I never thought of that. I suppose I appear to 
you a ridiculous old fogey. 

JENNIFER. But surely—I did not mean to offend you, 
indeed—but you must be at least twenty years older than 
[ am. 

RIDGEON. Oh, quite. More, perhaps. In twenty years 
you will understand how little difference that makes. 


102 The Doctor’s Dilemma “Act V 


JENNIFER. But even so, how could you think that I—his 
wife—could ever think of you— 

RIDGEON [stopping her with a nervous waving of his fingers] 
Yes, yes, yes, yes: I quite understand: you neednt rubit in. 

JENNIFER. But—oh, it is only dawning on me now—I 
was so surprised at first—do you dare to tell me that it was 
to gratify a miserable jealousy that you deliberately—oh ! 
oh! you murdered him. 

RIDGEON. I think I did. It really comes to that. 


Thou shalt not kill, but needst not strive ; 
Officiously to keep alive. 


T suppose—yes: I killed him. 

jenniFer. And you tell me that! to my face! callously! 
You are not afraid! 

RIDGEON. I am a doctor: I have nothing to fear. it is 
not an indictable offence to call in B. B. Perhaps it ought 
to be; but it isnt. 

JENNIFER. I did not mean that. I meant afraid of my 
taking the law into my own hands, and killing you. 

RIDGEON. I am so hopelessly idiotic about you that I 
should not mind it a bit. You would always remember me 
if you did that. 

JENNIFER. I shall remember you always as a little man 
who tried to kill a great one. 

RIDGEON. Pardon me. I succeeded. 

JENNIFER [with quiet conviction] No. Doctors think they 
hoid the keys of life and death; but it is not their will 
that is fulfilled. I dont believe you made any difference 
at all. 

RIDGEON. Perhaps not. But I intended to. 

JENNIFER [looking at Lim amazedly: not without pity] And 
you tried to destroy that wonderful and beautiful life 
merely because you grudged him a woman whom you 
could never have expected to care for you! 

RIDGEON. Who kissed my hands. Who believed in me. 
Who told me her friendship lasted until death, 


Act V The Doctor’s Dilemma 103 


yenniFeR. And whom you were betraying. 

ripceon. No. Whom I was saving. 

JENNIFER [gently] Pray, doctor, from what? 

RIDGEON. From making a terrible . discovery. From 
having your life laid waste. 

JENNIFER. How? 

RipGEON. No matter. I have saved you. I have been 
the best friend you ever had. You are happy. You are 
well. His works are an imperishable joy and pride for you. 

yeNNIFER. And you think that is your doing. Oh 
doctor, doctor! Sir Patrick is right: you do think you 
are a little god. Howcan you be so silly? You did not 
paint those pictures which are my imperishable joy and 
pride: you did not speak the words that will always be 
heavenly music in my ears. I listen tothem now whenever 
I am tired or sad. ‘That is why I am always happy. 

RIDGEON. Yes, now that he is dead. Were you always 
happy when he was alive? 

JENNIFER [evounded| Oh, you are cruel, cruel. When he 
was alive I did not know the greatness of my blessing. I 
worried meanly about little things. I was unkind to him. 
I was unworthy of him. 

RIDGEON [/eughing bitterly] Ha! 

JENNIFER. Dont insult me: dont blaspheme. [Ste swatches 
up the book and presses it to her heart in a paroxysm of remorse, 
exclaiming| Oh, my King of Men! 

RIDGEON. King of Men! Oh, this is too monstrous, too 
grotesque. We cruel doctors have kept the secret from you 
faithfully ; but it is like all secrets: it will not keep itself. 
The buried truth germinates and breaks through to the light. 

JENNIFER. What truth? 

RipGEON. What truth! Why, that Louis Dubedat, King 
of Men, was the most entire and perfect scoundrel, the 
most miraculously mean rascal, the most callously selfish 
blackguard that ever made a wife miserable. 

JENNIFER [unshaken: calm and lovely} He made his wife 
the happiest woman in the world, doctor. 


104 The Doctor’s Dilemma Act V 


ripczon. No: by all thats true on earth, he made his 
widow the happiest woman in the world; but it was I 
who made her a widow. And her happiness is my justifica- 
tion and my reward. Now you know what I did and what 
I thought of him. Be as angry with me as you like: at 
least you know me as I really am. If you ever come to. 
care for an elderly man, you will know what you are 
caring for. 

JENNIFER [hind and quiet] 1 am not angry with you any 
more, Sir Colenso. I knew quite well that you did not 
like Louis; but it is not your fault: you dont understand: 
that is all. You never could have believed in him. It is 
just like your not believing in my religion: it is a sort of 
sixth sense that you have not got. And [with @ gentle re- 
assuring movement towards him] dont think that you have 
shocked me so dreadfully. I know quite well what you 
mean by his selfishness. He sacrificed everything for his art. 
In a certain sense he had even to sacrifice everybody— 

RIDGEON. Everybody except himself. By keeping that 
back he lost the right to sacrifice you, and gave me the 
right to sacrifice him. Which I did. 

JENNIFER [shaking her bead, pitying bis error| He was one 
of the men who know what women know: that self- 
sacrifice 1s vain and cowardly. 

RIDGEON. Yes, when the sacrifice is rejected and thrown 
away. Not when it becomes the food of godhead. 

jeNNIFER. I dont understand that. And I cant argue 
with you: you are clever enough to puzzle me, but not to 
shake me. You are so utterly, so wildly wrong; so incap- 
able of appreciating Louis— 

ripceon. Oh! [taking up the Secretary's list] 1 have 
marked five pictures as sold to me. 

JENNIFER. They will not be sold to you. Louis’ creditors 
insisted on selling them; but this is my birthday; and 
they were all bought in for me this morning by my 
husband. 

RipcEoN. By whom?!!] 


Act V The Doctor’s Dilemma 105 


JENNIFER. By my husband. 

ripGEON [gabbling and stuttering) What husband? Whose 
husband? Which husband? Whom? how? what? Do you 
mean to say that you have married again? 

JENNIFER. Do you forget that Louis disliked widows, and 
that people who have married happily once always marry 
again? 

ripczoN. Then I have committed a purely disinterested 
murder! 

The Secretary returns with a pile of catalogues 

THE SECRETARY. Just got the first batch of catalogues in 
time. The doors are open. 

JENNIFER [to Ridgeou, politely] So glad you like the pic- 
tures, Sir Colenso. Good morning. 

RIDGEON. Good morning. [He goes towards the door; hesi- 
tates; turns to say something more; gives it up as a bad job; 


and goes). 





“Ypsu7 07 Furpsorrw ‘yova “sf puv “po ‘sz 4v Fulputg yj0j) ut panssz osyn aay shod agvandas ay J *d1uenjor au0 

Up 4D 2[22YSDY Yqvaspy IY], Uw puvgsnzy aap] 07 par] azy moze “y Iva ‘st 24M parecvpy Fu1yj24y pun ‘vummriq 
540120 94, “puvjsy 4ay1Q sying “yo -y2va 37% “pg st ‘“adgvey tadug ut skvjgq ry] fo ssout fo suoiipa ayvavgas 

‘JOU "SQ “OAT “soeu0y YT pues ‘Auesouoyy ‘AjuenystyD jo syoodsorg 3y3 uo 


saoyjarg YUM ‘she[g e14,, “NOITIVWDAd ‘GA TONNYAAO ‘NOTT AHL ANY SH TOOVINYV 


“you *sQ "JOA I <avadsaxrYys uo puy uaIp[Iys puv sjusreg uo S9d¥jolg GWA “SALLY sayy, 
“AVTd USUI S.AANNVA ONV ‘SLANNOS AHL AO AGCVI SNNVA AHL “AON VITIVSIN 
‘yousg OAT -diysrosuss ay} uo pue ‘adulueyy uo ‘uoIssajorg Teorpayy aq3 uo sadvyarg QUA, ‘sARLG 9IUL “LANSOd 
OONVTd FO dN-ONIMAHS AHL INV ‘GAINUAVW ONILLAD ‘VINA TIA SMOLOOd AHL 
‘Jou “st “Yo}eHS [eatdoy y (6061) SONI LLAD SSANd 
‘you ‘Sg "JOAT ‘sAU[q %INT, ‘vag YM IV auo ul 
Sed @ ‘anvasnyy 4aY{OOL Galt AY MOLY Ose Suipnjouy -wsiyoreuy pue Ajueysuygs uo pue 3dA3q pue puryaly 
UL aNY swWofFY uo soovjary YUM ‘VUNVANVA UO(VIW ANV ANVISI UAHLO S.ITAAG NOL 
“SISIUOLINOASY IO} SUNIXL]Y “YOOQpueTy ssiuonnpoasy syy, ‘Sjoy IM07 uy “‘NVWASdING AGNV NVJY ‘Zr 
‘AWTAIV AA WVHONIG YAHLYY 03 ArojwoIpag, apsidq 
‘you “SQ "JOA I *“AHAOSOTIHG V ANV AGAKOD V ‘NVINN7dNS UNV NVA 
“SIOY SUG TY, Ul “NOISHHANOD S,ANNoassvag NIVLdvt ‘Or ‘s}Dy alg Ul ‘rEseesy sun 
JO aMAvIZo}0NT yUM ‘VaLVIORID ANY uvsa7) 6 ‘SPY BAYT Ul “ouAOSINg yesousT) jo yeWI0g ainavasooyug 
qUM ‘ATSIC. S,TIAR( SHY, ‘8 gaeadssyxeqg uvyqy 103}0q “SOIIY ULluojoqeiqd, UO Zsuuyung 10) Aya, ‘wOVaBAg 
‘Jou SQ) OAT “SNVLINOd YOA SAVId AATYVHL 
TPL Ved aeaenN nox (2) § Aunsaq jo ueyy eUL (9) f epipues (S) Suey aq} pue sully (%) “LNVSVHTd ‘II “IOA 
“UOISSOOIg SUSUILA, “SITY (£) Ssssepurpiyg eq, (z) Ssasnoyy stamopt ay (1) “LNVSVHTAN() *[ “IOA 
*Ajayeredas ploS ‘qova jou ‘so “‘SBONsJIIG JEUISIIO 3y2 puy ‘SNVAY “ET 
yOIMaaaYT Aq JOYINY 9Y} Jo PeIOg & UIT ‘SJOAZ *LNVSVATINON UNV INVSVAld ‘SAVId 
‘JojeouvMlOY AreuoIN[OAady V 
3 ssoidurqy yLAaysjog 243 ‘VASNVIVNNY—2018,7 asVT 03 OTT, WS LIGl SIP] SHOCT SA.LSNONY—vyYsIpamior [oO \SI FT soWY 
uy : Na TVSsnaag JO VON] BHY— 9 ]Yduvg ZuNnmvoay y : ‘O’A ALUSHW IY. O—(sar0pe JVs A101) woy AA) BNINZHLYS) 
LVAADN—sauay TL, ysysuq uo Jouuepy uvissny 943 Ur vlsewey VY :aSNO}] AVANGLYVELT “HQvamaug ‘qau "pg ‘sé 
048 JD UVM FHL JO SLATAV1d INV “ANIMAHLVO LVAD ‘ASNOH NVANALNVAH 


‘oz6‘1E ‘a*v :HOVAY NVD LHDAOH], 
SV UV SY—O0of “a°v :NVWATLINAD ATYAQTY NV JO AGOVYT—OlIz ‘a-v iSNSddVH{ ONIH], HT —Avq qwass1g 


+ SVEVNUVG SHAHLONG AHL 40 THdsoN AHL —(uepy Jo uapsres) aq3 uy) Foot -o-a DS ONINNIDAG FHL N[—sovaaug 
‘Jou "SOI "OAS “ID “HVIASOHLAW OL MOVd 
SMUIOM OILLVNVAG 


; (£881) LSITVIOOS ‘IVIDOSNA Nv ‘S “ON 
‘W2U'sg “Banya y -ozq wspoyy uosjony pue CaauvAMAUNA AONVLISNOO #9 ATIIAHSVE WIAVYINGY GL 


papnue 9143s ueYjaqezify oy} UL UoIsI9A OTeUIEIP YIM “(zEgt) NOISSAATONd S.NONAD TAHSVO “PON 
(1881) SISILNV FHL SNOKV AAOT ‘f ‘ON 
‘jou SS1 “SO6r ur sovjarg e YM pajunidsy -(oggr) LONN IVNOLLVUUI ALL ‘2% ON 


‘AOVNON AW AO STHAON 
MWHS OSV NM AT IG CYNO 4A 





pe fh SS A 


‘souapuodsaiio poysrqndun woy 
yuaixe ouos 03 puv ‘P76r 03 dn poysiqnd sxsom ayi [[Y Wor TMLIP aie SUOTIDIIDS SY, “77% “8S ‘wo1gipa ys41f 943 fo sargoo 
a13f py 7a “pose ‘uonwpy anjngog mayy “uIpoy Aq ALY preussg jo ysnq ay Jo ainavizoi0g]g & YWAL “MVHS f 


ALLOLAVHD Aq uasoy) “MVHS GUVNUAD AO SNUYOM AILL WOYA SADVSSVd GALOATAS 
‘SNOILOW IAS 
Pg ~UvUISDITIS MON SY, 0} JUDWayddns vse paysyqng ‘bI61 YVM AHL LAOWV ASNAS NOWWOD 


‘st ‘sprvoq UT "pg ‘staaco Jodug = y9alqns ay} UO ssoxq BY3 03 $39979] JOYITA WOS qaIM ‘quID [Weqry 


JeuOHeNT 94} JO 39ND oWOUOSY pur [vontog ay} 0} sseappy uy “E161 ‘ALITVNOU UOA ASVO AL 


“sr ‘sprvog uy ‘pg ‘s19a09 Jadeg = “yesyod & pur 6061 jo souapuodsas109 saree 7 
247 YM payundey = “P6gr ONLI “HM WA OF Alder y “SNIVUG WOINAAS GNV WSITVIOOS 
"PQ “g061 pajuudsy =“vo61 ‘ONIGVUL IVdIOINQW AO ASNAS NOWNOO AHL 
"p9 CAVHG GuvNaag pue gLoog 
“AA ‘S) U22eMJaq azeqap oqnd eyo yodsy wiyeqieA “1681 ‘AVG ONINNOM SUYNOH LHOM NV 
"MS ‘UOpuO’y ‘xdzSUTUNIS AL 
20NS [TMOL Sz ‘Ayawog uviqeg ‘Areyos99g oy} 03 Ajddy ‘pz ao “pr ‘(snouvA) SLOVYL NVIGVA 
“pr woy jopydured uy st “Fob ‘NOILSANO TVOSIA AHL ANV WSINVIAVA 


‘I ‘006! “AUIdNWA AHL AGNV WSINVIdVA 
“st ‘uorzipay anpngog 6°S9 ‘Molipy fevagiT “SIIAOJ, AVI, pue 
ENVUD aTLIVAM 4q Si9,09 pus saoaidsuorg «= ‘ANV1Ig LUsdny pue “LNVSHg HINNY ‘S{yY “OW 'D ‘ASIATIO ASNGAS 


‘AMAVIQ KVITTIAY O32] 94} ‘AGHA AUNGIC ‘MVHS GUVNAAG 4g ‘6991 ‘SAVSSH NVIAVA 
INONOOA ANV ‘IVOILITOd 


017040944 Ut MOITINT, MIAT} *go6r sovjarg & WM payuidey Sgr ut 4742927 04 
pamqujuos AYLuLsUuQ = ‘NOLLVYANAOAG SMepion xe iq 03 Ajdary “LUV AO ALINVS AIL 

‘sjoA cunry Aq aovjorg & UNM ‘waNANAY sawv{ Aq peas 
*g6-S6QI UI maznay Appanjos ay7 0} paynqiayuos AT[euISUQ. *SAVYSSA GNV SNOINIdO OILVNVUd 
‘you ‘pg sS “E161 ‘uoNIpyY pry, “ALINANOVM LOAAYAd AHL 

‘Jeu “pg *sE ‘dOllIps 


(16g1) 3say 93 Jo uoNatdmog y ‘£161 ‘uonIpyY puodvIg. "WSINASAL JO AONASSALNINO AML 
‘WSIDILIND OIHdOSOTIHd NI SAVSSH 


PuuHnuOI—MYHS GXYVNAA Ad SadOM 





> 


Lod 





Dott eh Mem ree comtztente te eet 





f PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 


UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 


PR Shaw, George Bernard 
5363 The doctor's dilemma 
A2 





WS 


. ; 
ay SE. Fig, 3 , : bs 
a oe san € s a 
as ae oe 7 a +. tee —wl s id 
.* oe -. | oti ie 4 
ye te! ae 


Rady 
way a 





