THE FABIAN SOCIETY 


ae 





THz paar of the Fabian Society are declared Socialist 
The work of the Society at present includes ; 
Fortnightly MAEODES for the discussion of questions connected} 
Socialism. - 
The investigation of economic problems, and the collection of 
contributing to their elucidation. 
The issue of publications containing information on social ques’ 
and arguments relating’to Socialism. 
The provision of lending libraries, lectures, and economic teachi: 
Working Men’s Clubs, Trade Unions, and other bodies. 
The meetings of the Society are held on Fridays at Cliffe, 
Inn, and are usuaily open by invitation’to persons interest) 
The Society seeks recruits from all*ranks, believing that 
only those who suffer from the present system, but also m 
who “are themselves enriched by it, Rec ORMine, its evils 
would welcome a remedy. 
Particulars of conditions of ‘membership, list of lectures, D 
can be gbueed on application fo the Secretary. - 







? 


neers 










List ai Fabian Tracts refetred to in 
this Manifesto. 


5. Facts for Seetdete 74. The State and its Functions 1 
29. What to Read. A List of Books * , New Zealand. 


for Social Reformers. 6¢. ~ . 83. State:Arbitration and the Lis 


each ; 4s. 6d. per doz. ing Wage. 

40. Fabian Election Manifesto, 1892. 85., Liquor Licensing at Hom 
41. The Fabian Society. By G. B. and Abroad. By E. R 
SHAW. . Le PEASE. 2nd edition. 

48, Eight Hours by Law. : (' 86, Municipal Drink Traffic. 
.49. A Plan of Campaign for Labor. | - edition. 
36 pp., 2d. ; ts. 6d. per doz. { 88. Growth of Monopoly in Englis 
70. Report on .F, abian Policy and ‘ Industry. -By H. W. Ma 
Resolutions presented tothe). ROST | 
> International“ Socialist. Con- | 101. The House Famine and He 
Press. y es to Relieve it. 


One Penny each unless otherwise stated. . 
ao, List and Set. of 31 Ti aes bound in buckram, fos free, for 3s. 9 





_ Lonpon, MW. GC. 


™\ + 


ey FABIAN SOCIETY, , Gracies fas. STRAND 


F CUALG 


~FABIANISM AND THE 
EMPIRE 





Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2007 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/fabianismempiremOO0shawuoft 


FABIANISM AND THE 
EMPIRE: A MANIFESTO 
BY THE FABIAN SO- 
CIETY. EDITED BY 
BERNARD SHAW 


GRANT RICHARDS, 9, HENRIETTA 
STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1900 


Ry 









JUN AS a 
vers oF > 


CHISWICK PRESS : CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO. 
TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON. 


EDITOR'S PREFACE. 


As the word editor is not a term of precision, 
itis necessary to explain that it means, in this 
instance, only the draughtsman employed by the 
eight hundred members of the Fabian Society to 
produce their Election Manifesto. The Society 
is alive to the importance of making tts utterances 
readable; and this can only be done by leaving 
the manner of their expression to a literary 
expert, and confining its dictation to the matter 
to be expressed. 

Further, it will be understood that the greatest 
common measure of the opinions of eaght hundred 
persons 1s not the same thing as the opinion of 
every individual member, and that on certain 
points a wholly dissentient minority has been small 
enough to submit to being voted down. for 
example, some members regard the South African 
expedition as a foreseen and deliberate act on the 
part of the Government; and of these, some con- 
sider it a political crime, and others a justifiable 


—_ 


v1 EDITOR’S PREFACE 


stroke of Imperial Statesmanship. Again, on 
the point of Army Reform, many members 
disapprove so strongly of war that they desire 
it to be understood that they endorse the pages 
which follow on that subject only as a Tolstoyan 
opponent of our criminal system might neverthe- 
less provisionally advocate prison reform, or as 
a vegetarian might advocate municipal abattoirs. 
There are Fabian teetotalers, too, who refuse to 
say anything more for the municipal public house 
than to admit, doubtfully and reluctantly, that it 
7s a more controllable evil than a brewer's tied 
house, and will not go even so far as that without 
an explicit affirmation that a more excellent way 
zs not to have drinkshops of any sort. All 
reservations made, however, tt may be taken that 
what is said in this Manifesto is what the great 
majority of the members of the Fabian Society 
desire to have said at the present moment. 

It must not be inferred from the restriction of 
the Manifesto to the general lines of the reforms 
advocated that these have been but superficially 
considered. Our allusion to the Drink Question, 
jor instance, clearly does not exhaust it, since a 
considerable interval of regulation of private enter- 
prise lies between us and complete municipaliza- 


EDITOR’S PREFACE Vil 


tion. But the tracts prepared by Mr. Edward 
Pease, and already issued by the Society, supply 
the lacking proposals. Again, the inevitableness 
of the Minimum Wage, which is no mere theoretic 
remedy, but the irresistible conclusion from a 
century of labor organization, has come out tn the 
course of a unique wnvestigation, the most elaborate 
and severe yet undertaken by individual Fabians, 
by Mr. §: Mrs. Sidney Webb. It ts recorded in 
their volumes entitled “ The History of Trade 
Unionism” and “ Industrial Democracy.” The 
suggestion as to the provision of a Militia by 
raising the half-time age was first mooted by 
them in a letter to The Times last year. The 
important proposals as to the consular service 
are the outcome of a sertes of discussions initiated 
by Mr. S. G. Hobson, who was the first Fabian 
to see the value, as an illustration of the need 
Jor State organization of foreign trade, of the 
contrast between the imbecility and paralysis of 
English commercial diplomacy in the valley of 
the Yang-tse, and the victorious alertness and 
efficiency of Russia. As to Municipal Trading, 
those who are not yet alive to the fact that we 
are in the throes of a struggle—quite as important 
as the South African one—between the new local 


-_ 


Vill EDITOR'S PREFACE 


authorities, representing the citizenship of England, 
and the company promoters, for the control of our 
common life industries, will find in the Fabian 
tract on “The Economics of Direct .Employ- 
ment,” and that on “ The Growth of Monopoly” 
by Mr. H. W. Macrosty, a mass of facts which 
cannot be detailed in an Election Manifesto. 
The elector who votes in ignorance of these facts 
will vote on assumptions which, though they are 
unfortunately still the prevalent assumptions of 
our educated classes, have long ceased to have 
any relation to contemporary reality. 

For many valuable amendments and certain 
chastening criticisms, I am indebted to several 
members of the Society; but those named above, 
with Mr. Gilbert Slater, have contributed as well 
as criticised. | 

One of the reasons for issuing this Manifesto 
in the form of a shilling book ts that the custom 
of the Society, which is to sell for a penny a 
quantity of literary matter and political and 
statistical information which could not be com- 
_ mercially produced and sold for less than half- 
a-crown, has resulted in an undue specialization 
of tts market. The richer classes in England 
read nothing but what their booksellers sell; and 


EDITOR’S PREFACE ix 


booksellers cannot afford to sell penny pampllets. 
It 1s one of the oddities of our competitive system 
that, out of the multitude of useful things that 
are sold for a penny, the millionaire can only 
obtain the penny stamp and the penny news- 
paper: uf he wants the penny Fabian Tract he 
must either join one of the political or social 
organizations by which such wares are distributed 
(and their articles of faith are seldom such as a 
conscientious millionaire can subscribe), or else 
the Soctety must come to his rescue by charging 
him at least a shilling. It does so in this 
wnstance with many apologies for the smallness 
of the sum, which is, nevertheless, an exclusive 
one—how exclusive the reader will best appreciate 
after a reference to our “ Facts for Socialists,” 
facts which unfortunately remain facts from 
edition to edition, in spite of our sixteen years’ 
struggle to awaken social compunction concerning 
them. 


G. B.S. 





CONTENTS. 


PART I. FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE. 


PAGE 
INTRODUCTORY. s : : : : a, | 
ForEIGN TRADE . : : : ; : ae: 
IMPERIAL Poutcy. : : . : - eS 
InpIa . ? re 
SoutH arco: The Gold of the Bala : . 22 

The Settlement . : ‘ . ; : eee 
Army RrEForm . : : : é . 38 

Shall we have Coreen nient mrs . 39 

The War Office . ; : : : : . 43 
CHINA . ‘ ; é . 4A 

Free Trade : : ; : : : . 80 

« Panem et Circenses” : : . 62 

PART II. HOME AFFAIRS. 

Home AFFAIRS . : ‘ ; 2 . o9 
The Working Clastes: : i ; 2 B60 
Labor Policy . : . 62 
A Minimum Wage on babar : : . 64 

Tur Hovusine QUESTION. : : : . 68 

Mounicipant TRADING . : : ; . #2 

THe DRINK QUESTION. : : : . 280 
The Public House . : : : ; | IO 

EDUCATION . ; } ; : . 85 
The Press . : . 5 , . o§ 


Tue Moran oF IT xe é ; , : cs: 


—_ 











FABIANISM AND THE 
EMPIRE. 


INTRODUCTORY. 


HE forthcoming General Election will 

turn, we are told, mainly on the popu- 
larity of Imperialism. If this be so, it is im- 
portant that voters should make up their minds 
what Imperialism means. If itis a mere catch- 
word vaguely denoting our insular self-conceit, 
then its victory at a General Election would be 
a grave symptom of national infatuation. But 
if it means a well-considered policy to be 
pursued by a Commonwealth of the com- 
munities flying the British flag, then it is as 
worthy and as weighty an issue as an election 
could turn on. Only, in that case, we must 
ask for a clear statement of the questions 


2 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


which have been considered, and the solutions 
proposed for them. 

So far, no such statement has been made. 
The pressure of war, far from changing our 
parliamentarians into statesmen, has only 
freshened the stale levities of partisanship by 
an outbreak of boyish excitement and an 
occasional flush of indignation that is, for once, 
not a pretence to be dropped the moment the 
speaker leaves the platform. Thus, when op- 
ponents of the Government’s policy have had 
their windows broken, the leader of the House 
of Commons has naively blurted out the feeling 
of the Government that it served them right. 
The Colonial Secretary has publicly threatened 
France with war because the tone of some of 
the French comic papers is disrespectful to 
the British Empire. This was shortly after 
Punch had caricatured the French nation 
and Major Marchand as an organ-grinder with 
a monkey. All this may be natural enough ; 
but it is not Imperial statesmanship. As to 
the Opposition, it is divided into three sec- 
tions. Two of them are anxious to shew 
that they agree with the Government in 
everything except their desire to have a turn 


INTRODUCTORY o 


in office and the selection of the next Prime 
Minister. The third, though its imtellectual 


a ee 


ee ee ee 


honesty stands out well in the general par- 
liamentary dearth of that quality, still clings 
to_ the fixed-frontier ideals of individualist 
republicanism, non-interference, and national- 
ism, long since demonstrated both by ex- 
perience and theory to be mapplicable to our 
present situation. It is possible to respect the 
tenacity and courage of these sturdy gentlemen, 
just as itis possible to respect the tenacity and 
courage of President Kruger. But it is not _ 
possible to conduct the British | Empire, « or even, 
as we have seen, a little African republic, on 
their principles. 

The problem before us is how the world can 
be ordered by Great Powers of practically 
international extent, arrived at a degree of 
internal industrial and political development 
far beyond the primitive political economy of 
the founders of the United States and the 
Anti-Corn Law League. The partition of the 
greater part of the globe among such Powers 
is, as a matter of fact that must be faced, 
approvingly or deploringly, now only a ques- 
tion of time ; and whether England is to be 

B 


4. FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


the centre and nucleus of one of those Great 
Powers of the future, or to be cast off by its 
colonies, ousted from its provinces, and reduced 
to its old island status, will depend on the 
ability with which the Empire is governed as 
a whole, and the freedom of its Governments 
and its officials from complicity in private 
financial interests and from the passions of 
the newspaper correspondents who describe 
our enemies as “beasts.” And as there is no 
evidence, so far, that the Houses of Parliament, 
as at present manned, fulfil these conditions, or 
that the Press is disposed to criticize them for 
not fulfillmg them, the present probabilities 
point, not to English success on the great inter- 
national plane of modern politics, but to dis- 
ruption of the Empire from within by Declara- 
tions of Independence from disgusted and 
exasperated colonists, and, as to these islands, 
to a chronic militarist panic of foreign Invasion, 
mitigated only by the hope that the other 
Powers may be as ignorantly and _ lazily 
governed as we are, and that in the last 
extremity perhaps America would come to 
our rescue. The recent vogue of militarism, 
which flourishes only in terrified nations, and 


INTRODUCTORY 5 


the prevalence of bluster of the ‘‘ who’s afraid ?” 
kind in the Press, are seriously disquieting 
social symptoms ; though it remains to be 
proved by a General Election how far they 
have affected the nerves of the electorate. 

No election, unfortunately, can be very re- 
assuring under existing circumstances. ‘The 
nation makes no serious attempt to demo- 
cratize its Government, because its masses are 
still in so deplorable a condition that demo- 
cracy, in the popular sense of government. by 
the masses,_is clearly. contraryto..common 
sense. Our only aristocracy is a hereditary 
aristocracy, which is an absurdity in modern 
society, where distinctions of caste are com- 
pletely broken down by money. The hereditary 
aristocracy can stand in the way of a genuine 
aristocracy of capacity; but it is unable to 
defend its posts against the hustling of am- 
bitious and successful -representatives of com- 
merce. The result is that our constitution, 
whatever it may be nominally, is in fact a 
plutocracy. The central Government is in 
the hands of two official cliques equally bank- 
rupt in modern political science, supported in 
Parliament by the votes of a number of gentle- 


_ 


G6 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


men who, having no political ideas, though 
plenty of commercial ones, have bought their 
seats as much as they have bought their horses 
and their private houses. Almost all of them 
have been enabled to effect this purchase by 
personal and class interests which are coming 
more and more into direct competitive conflict 
with the interests of English citizenship as repre- 
sented by the new local authorities. Most of 
them depend on the votes of the working class, 
whose part in the political history of the last 
ten years has been a steady policy of main- 
taining a rich class for the sake of getting 
employment from it either directly or through 
the huge class of shopkeepers who regard rich 
customers as their natural prey. Our concern 
in this Manifesto is not specially for the wage- 
earning class, which is taking its own course 
and reaping only what it has sown, but for 
the effective social organization of the whole 
Empire, and its rescue from the strife of classes 
and private interests. 


FOREIGN TRADE t 


FOREIGN TRADE. 


Tue first step to be taken abroad, and one 
without which our trade can never pass through 
the doors our armics have battered down and 
kept open for cleverer races (the Jews) and 
better organized nations (the Germans), is a 
reorganization of our consular service. We 
have an Imperial Institute at South Kensing- 
ton, where it is not the slightest use, except 
perhaps as a towering monument of an ex- 
ceptionally silly job. We want an Imperial 
Institute at every important port or inland 
trade centre, and at every likely-to-be-import- 
ant port or centre, with which we trade. -At 
that Imperial Institute the British trader 
should find ready for him an Exchange for the 
exhibition of samples of his products, a staff 
of responsible interpreters, and a consulate of 
experienced men, not wasting their time in 
writing reports for home which few people 
read and nobody attends to, but making it their 
business, as experts, to catch and advise the 
British trader until he, too, becomes an expert. 


a 


8 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Also to see that the speculator in damaged 
cargoes and adulterated goods shall do his 
cheating outside the Institute with interpreters 
and agents picked up at the street corner; so 
that the British Commonwealth shall not be 
discredited by them, and the native buyer shall 
learn that our old familiar friend, the independ- 
ent Briton who scorns grandmotherly govern- 
ment, and will not be interfered with by Jacks 
in office, has probably the same reason’ for 
objecting to the consul as a pickpocket has for 
objecting to a magistrate. The consulate could 
itself act as broker, if necessary, and have a 
revenue from commissions, of which, however, 
the salaries of its officials should be strictly 
independent. When the time comes for our 
foreign trade to outgrow private enterprise, 
and be carried on by an industrial British fleet 
instead of by lines of commercial privateers, 
such a developed consulate will furnish the 
administrative machinery for the change. 

In the meantime a reorganized consulate 
can do us good service incidentally by repre- 
senting the interests of the Commonwealth as 
against the private financial interests of the 
rings into whose hands our foreign trade at 


FOREIGN TRADE 9 


present tends to fall. These rings have an 
appalling power of dragging us into wars by 
the simple process of attending to their business 
whilst we are neglecting ours. In doing so they 
are only doing their duty to their shareholders. 
If our Governments neglect their duty to their 
shareholders (that is, to the citizens of the 
Commonwealth), it is idle to blame ‘ Capital- 
ism” for the results. None the less is it true 
that a ring can get at the Press, not because 
the Press is corrupt, but because it 1s ignorant. 
The Press can get at the Government for 
exactly the same reason. Nobody supposes, 
for instance, that a trading ring and its 
financiers can walk into The Times office, 
and pay the editor and his staff a round sum 
of money for working up a few common 
grievances into a war fever. But The Times 
will do it without being paid, from pure 
ignorance and insular pugnacity. And our 
Ministers, taking their information and their 
ideas from The Times and the papers of 
which The Times is a type, will send out 
armed expeditions under the impression that 
they are defending the Empire and glorifying 
the flag, when they are, as everyone behind 


a 


10 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


the scenes can see, being used by speculators 
as a ferret is used by a poacher. This 
danger will beset us until we have in every 
foreign market an organ of commercially disin- 
terested industrial intelligence. A developed 
consulate would be such an organ; and until we 
have it private interests will be able to make 
wars at our expense, and with our armies, by 
simply prompting the pugnacity which distin- 
guishes us. This pugnacity is not, as we are 
apt to imagine, an effect of our courage. The 
plain truth is that as we are a nation of 
civilians, exempt from compulsory military 
service, with no home experience of the horrors 
of war, and very rich into the bargain, war 
means nothing to us but romantic accounts in 
the newspapers of what is happening abroad, 
ending in a few pence more on the income tax. 
If war meant to us the bombardment of English 
towns and the laying waste of English counties, 
all the millionaires in Europe would not be 
able to persuade us to risk a skirmish to 
remedy a grievance at the Antipodes. 

Any person who thinks this application of 
Socialism to foreign trade through the consular 
system impossible, also thinks the survival of 


FOREIGN TRADE ll 


his country in the age of the Powers impos- 
sible. No German thinks it impossible. If 
he has not already achieved it, he intends to; 
and if the German can do in social organ- 
ization what the Englishman cannot do, the 
most patriotic course for our Chambers of 
Commerce will finally be to beg the German 
Emperor to annex the British Isles after our 
armies have cleared the way for Germans in 
Asia, Africa, and wherever else the markets 
were fortified against them. American traders 
already sell their exports in the Far East by 
a joint permanent exhibition in Tokio. As 
to the Russians, the opening of the Siberian 
railway has revealed exploits of industrial 
diplomacy on their part which fill English 
travellers with a dismayed sense of our wasted 
opportunities. We have plenty of adminis- 
trative machinery to begin with: first, the 
commercial attachés of the Diplomatic Corps, 
who have done good service in Berlin and 
Paris; second, the Consular Service; third, 
the Colonial Office, an organization capable, as 
Mr. Chamberlain well knows, of enormous de- 
velopment. Nothing is more depressing than 
to compare the use we make of them all with 


e 
——_ 


12 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


the use we might make of them if only we 
would take our public business seriously. 

An easier, weaker, lazier and hopelessly in- 
effectual way to deal with foreign competition 
is to impose duties on imports. This course is 
suggested, naturally enough, by the people who 
would make money by it at the expense of the 
rest of the consumer. Its adoption would 
stamp us as a flock of political gulls. But when 
once the feeling that “something must be done” 
seizes us, we will be gulled sooner than do 
nothing. Mere old-fashioned Free Trade talk 
will have no effect on a generation which has 
not been educated in Manchester economics. 
Nothing but a positive alternative policy will 
save us from floundering into reaction; and 
there is no practicable alternative except bring- 
ing the power, the information, and the organ- 
ization of the Empire to the help of the 
enterprise of the individualtrader. We allowed 
the McKinley tariff to cause great distress in 
South Wales for some years by bringing a 
flourishing industry (the tin plate) to a stand- 
still for want of new markets to which a 
properly organized consulate could have 
guided it. Our notion of encouraging in- 


IMPERIAL POLICY 13 


dustry at that time was to compel importers 
to mark their goods with the country of 
origin. As a result, articles marked “ Made 
in Germany” now take the same precedence 
in our retail shops as hall-marked silver. 


IMPERIAL POLICY. 


Tue best chance for Khaki at this election 
is not its own popularity, but the absence of 
any alternative. ‘The Opposition front bench, 
having no ideas and no program (any more 
than the Government), will fall back on re- 
crimination about irrevocable bygones in 
South Africa, instead of accepting the situa- 
tion which has been created, rightly or 
wrongly, and facing it. Whether the elector- 
ate shares President Kruger’s political ideas, 
or believes them to be as obsolete as his 
theology, it probably suspects that if the 
Government had been as earnest in its efforts 
to.stave off war as in its efforts to stave off 
Old Age Pensions there would have been no 
war. But the electorate docs not believe, and 
has not the slightest reason to believe, that if 


——_ 


14 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


the Opposition had been in power, it would 
have been a whit less capitalist-ridden than the 
Government. All Governments are capitalist- 
ridden, and will continue to be—so_ until 
Socialism builds up the British State into 
something worthy of a-sacrifice of private 
commercial. interests by public men. Con- 
sequently, if the Liberal Pot tries to get mto 
power by calling the Conservative Kettle black, 
it will fail ; for, if the choice is to be between 
parties instead of between programs, the Con- 
servative party is greatly to be preferred, since 
it can get larger measures of reform through 
the House of Lords than the Liberal party 
can; and the most active reformers have 
reason to prefer the affable frankness of the 
Conservative Minister who laughs at his own 
ignorance and is willing to be coached through 
his Bills, to the unteachable Liberal who feels 
bound by the Cobdenite tradition to affect the 
doctrinaire in political science and economics 
without genuine knowledge of either. 

What is needed now is a definite constitu- 
tional policy to be pursued by the Empire 
towards its provinces. The real danger against 
which such a policy must be directed is not 


IMPERIAL POLICY 15 


the danger of attack on the Empire from with- 
out, but of mismanagement and disruption 
from within. The British. Empire, wisely 
governed, is invincible. The British Impire, 
“handled as we handled Ireland and the Ameri- 
can colonies, and-as we may handle South 
Africa if we are not careful, will fall to pieces 
without the firing of a foreign shot. 

The primary conditions of Imperial stability 
are not the same throughout the Empire. The 
democratic institutions that mean freedom in 
Australasia and Canada would mean slavery 
in India and the Soudan. We are no longer 
a Commonwealth of white men and baptized 
Christians: the vast majority of our fellow- 


subjects are black, brown, or yellow; and their 
creed is Mahometan, Buddhist, or Hindoo. 
We forbid the sale of the Bible in Khartoum, 
and punish British subjects in India for blas- 
phemy against Vishnu. We rule these vast 
areas and populations by a bureaucracy as 
undemocratic as that of Russia. And if we 
substituted for that bureaucracy local self- 
government by the white traders, we should 
get black slavery, and, in some places, frank 
black extermination, as we have had in the 


2 
_ 


16 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


“back blocks” of Australia. As for parlia- 
mentary institutions for native races, that 
dream has been disposed of by the American 
experiments after the Civil War. They are 
as useless to them as a dynamo to a Caribbean. 
We thus have two Imperial policies : a demo- 
cratic policy for provinces in which the white 
colonists are in a large majority, and a bureau- 
cratic policy where the majority consists of 
colored natives. Consequently the Empire 
cannot be governed either on Liberal or Con- 
servative, democratic or aristocratic principles 
exclusively; and cannot be governed on Church 
of England or Nonconformist principles at all. 
An Imperial issue between these parties and 
creeds is necessarily a false issue. 

So far, the broad divisions seem simple and 
well marked. But it happens that in the two 
provinces of the Empire which have just been 
visited by the most terrible of calamities— 
war, plague, and famime—neither method of 
government can be applied in its integrity. 


INDIA 17 


INDIA. 


Take the case of India, famine-stricken and 
plague-stricken. At present we govern India 
despotically and bureaucratically, treating the 
native as a child who must be governed for 
his own good. This is the kind of govern- 
ment that really deserves the epithet grand- 
motherly. Unfortunately, it has hitherto been 
criticised in our Parliament on home-made 
principles, the remedy proposed being to 
confer a parliamentary constitution on the 
native population. Without raising the ques- 
tion whether Indian subtlety understands 
parliamentary institutions too well or does not 
understand them at all, it is certain that they 
are, for many reasons, impracticable in India. 
But that is no reason for placing thousands of 
miles between the capable, educated Indian 
and the examinations for the Indian Civil 
Service,’ and maintaining it so as to provide 
lucrative posts for Englishmen whose pensions 
1 The question of the worthlessness of our present 


examinations as a test for Indian capacity is dealt with 
further on under the heading of Education. 


od 


18 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


add cruelly to the drain of rupees from a very 
poor country to a very rich one. For India, 
therefore, we need: 

I. An extension of the opportunities of 
Western ‘‘secondary education” for natives 
capable of it. 

II. A considerable further Indianization of 
the higher grades of the Civil Service. 

III. Multiplication of the provincial councils 
with limited powers under the guidance of the 
British Raj. 

IV. A wise development of the germs of self- 
government existent in the village councils. 

‘These, however, are merely reforms of 
political machinery. With the really horrible 
responsibility of the famines upon us, we can- 
not be satisfied with the official optimism which 
is content with a demonstration that India 
would be worse off without our administration. 
The same kind of optimism, leaning on idle 
literary contrasts of ‘‘ the nineteenth century ” 
with “ the dark ages,”’ shielded the degradation. 
of our manufacturing and mining population 
by the industrial revolution in England, and 
held back Factory legislation for half acentury. 
To tell us that there is no village problem in 





INDIA 19 


India; that there is no manufacturing-district 
problem in India; that there is no excessive 
taxation in India ; that village communism has 
decayed through its own rottenness, and not 
through Anglo-Indian ignorance of its nature 
and value; that the financial» transactions 
between Great Britain and India are perfectly 
equitable; that, in short, the famines, the 
conditions of labor in the gmning mills, the 
poverty and hopelessness, are ‘‘the act of God,” 
mitigable only by the vigilance of Lord George 
Hamilton, is to tax our patience too far. Such 
official apologetics can reassure no sensible 
citizen until we obtain some reasonably credible 
information through : 

A. An investigation of the social causes of 
Indian famines as distinct from the meteoro- 
logical causes. 

B. An investigation of the way in which the 
industrial revolution now proceeding is affect- 
ing the standard of life of the natives. 

Can it be doubted that the conclusions from 
such investigations would create an Indian 
industrial program, and add considerably to 
the Indian political program? And does 
anyone pretend that we already have the 

oF C 


20 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


information such investigations would supply, 
or that our ignorance is doing India no harm ? 

In the meantime a more sympathetic attitude 
towards the aspirations, if not towards the 
precise program, of the Indian Congress, and 
a more courageous toleration of the native 
Press, may safely be recommended. 

These changes cannot be brought about 
until we cease to sympathize with the strong 
caste feeling of the European, both official 
and merchant. That it exists, and that it has 
influenced for the worse the conduct of some 
of the Western Powers towards Japan in the 
Chinese crisis, is plain enough. Now an 
Indian is a man; and to be treated as * half 
devil, half child” is intolerable to every man, 
white or brown. Yet this attitude on the 
part of the ruling white aristocracy of India 
daily finds expression in unconscious con- 
tumely and sometimes in acts which are open 
outrages. The Indians live in an atmosphere 
of conquest; and to fight against an atmo- 
sphere is a task of such infinite difficulty that 
it makes them despair of all constitutional 
efforts to emancipate themselves. 

It is important that Indian reforms should 


INDIA va 


be taken in hand promptly, if only because 
of their importance as Imperial experiments. 
For we shall find in Africa as well as in Asia 
that the races we have to govern no more 
consist exclusively of ignorant and _ helpless 
tribesmen, capable of nothing but pure tutel- 
age, than our own population consists ex- 
clusively of ignorant and helpless agricultural 
laborers. And if we persist in the lazy policy 
of treating them like children, and adducing 
their submission as a proof that they are 
incapable of a share in government, until they 
rebel (meanwhile training regiments of them, 
be it remembered, in the use of modern 
weapons), then, after a long period of ill-will, 
during which they will be a menace to. the 
Empire instead of a buttress, they well rebel; 
and their rebellion will prove our incapacity 
for governing, not theirs for being governed. 
In fact, our first duty to our subjects is to 
make them as independent of our guidance, 
and consequently as appreciative of our 
partnership, as possible. 


22 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


SOUTH AFRICA. 


THE GOLD OF THE RAND. 


In South Africa—and Imperial policy at the 
coming election will mean South Africa—the 
problem is still more complicated than in 
India; for in it neither democracy nor bureau- 
cracy will serve alone, however modified. We 
are confronted there with colonies demanding 
democratic institutions in the midst of native 
races who must be protected despotically by 
the Empire or abandoned to slavery and 
extermination. And it is the Conservative 
party which has gone to war professedly on 
behalf of democracy; whilst the anti-Imperial- 
ist Liberals have the appearance of supporting 
the Boer oligarchy against it. What has 
really happened, however, is that a trouble- 
some and poor territory, which the Empire 
cast off into the hands of a little community of 
farmer emigrants, has unexpectedly turned out 
to be a gold-reef; and the Empire, accord- 
ingly, takes it back again from the farmers. 
If the Empire were a piece of private property 


SOUTIL AFRICA 23 


belonging to England (as most Englishmen 
think), and the Transvaal a farm privately 
owned by President Kruger (as the President 
explicitly affirmed without contradiction from 
Sir Alfred Milner at the Bloemfontein Confer- 
ence), the transaction would be mere brigand- 
age. And it may be conceded that to citizens 
and statesmen who are dominated by the - 
morality of private property, the war must be 
demoralizing if they are on the side of the 
Empire, and shocking if they are on the side of 
the farmers. But it is impossible for a great 
Commonwealth to be bound by any such in- 
dividualist superstition. However ignorantly 
its politicians may argue about it, reviling one 
another from the one side as brigands, and 
defending themselves from the other with — 
quibbles from waste-paper treaties and childish « _ 
slanders against a brave enemy, the fact 
remains that a Great Power, consciously or 
unconsciously, must govern in the interests of 
civilization as a whole; and it is not to those 
interests that such mighty forces as gold-fields, 
and the formidable armaments that can be’ 
built upon them, should be wielded irrespons- 
ibly by small communities of frontiersmen. 


ad 


24 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Theoretically, they should be internationalized, 
not British-Imperialized; but until the Federa- 
tion of the World becomes an accomplished 
fact, we must accept the most responsible 
Imperial federations available as a substitute 
for it. This is the best answer, for the 
purpose of excusing the war, to President 
Kruger’s statement at Bloemfontein that, in 
demanding the franchise for the Outlanders, 
we were asking him to give the title-deeds of 
“his” land to the laborers on it. Sir Alfred 
Milner had no reply at all, because, not being 
a Socialist, he quite agreed with the President’s 
fundamental position, and so had to argue in 
the manner of the wolf with the lamb. 

Khaki enthusiasts in search of an excuse 
for a war which they have supported in pure 
pugnacity will probably embrace this view of 
the situation, and pretend that they have held 
it all along. We must, however, dash the cup 
of salvation from their lips by pointing out 
that there has not yet.been the slightest 
suggestion from the Government that the ex- 
pedition to South Africa will have any other 
effect than to hand the gold-reef over absolutely 
to the cosmopolitan capitalists who formerly 


SOUTH AFRICA 25 


held it subject to the royalties which President 
Kruger and the Volksraad very properly ex- 
acted from them. We never dreamt of the 
importance to civilization of our taking back 
the gold-reef. We did not intend to take it 
back. Lord Salisbury, at the Mansion House, 
rashly repudiated any such intention. It is 
even contended by those who sympathize with 
the Boers that the capture of the gold-reef for 
the capitalists was the real purpose of the 
expedition. But such a view flatters the in- 
telligence of the Government at the expense 
of its honesty. The Government never for a 
moment meant fighting, any more than the 
nation did. What happened was that The 
Times and certain other influential papers, 
too dependent on the fashionable classes to 
venture to agitate about home grievances, 
began to bluster for reforms in the Transvaal. 
It was quite evident to the Government and 
everyone else that this bluster had been in- 
stigated, and was being encouraged, by the — 
financial interests represented by Mr. Cecil 
Rhodes, who, having given up as impracticable 
his original project of “cutting the painter” 
and founding an Afrikander United States, 


S 
——_ 


26 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


had fallen back on the next alternative : that 
of consolidating the Rand with the South 
African Province of the British Empire. Still, 
this did not affect the merits of the case. Mr. 
Rhodes and his friends had every right to 
agitate for the redress of the Outlanders’ 
grievances, and to enlist British Government 
pressure on their side if they could; and the 
Government and the nation acted naturally 
and patriotically in sympathizing with the Out- 
landers, who were mostly our countrymen. 
But the grievances alleged, though some of 
them were real enough, were ludicrously un- 
important in comparison with our cognate 
home grievances. Nobody in his senses would 
have contemplated a war on their account. A 
crusade against Russia on behalf of Finland, 
or against Turkey on behalf of Armenia, 
would have been by comparison a sane enter- 
prise. However, when a first-rate European 
power is dealing with a tiny frontier State, a 
good deal may be done by a threat of force— 
to put it bluntly, by bullying. Accordingly, 
we proceeded to bully, never doubting for a 
moment that President Kruger must succumb 
when he was convinced that we were deter- 


SOUTH AFRICA oe 


mined to stand no nonsense. By rallying to ‘ 
the encouragements of The Times, and keep- 
ing a stiff upper lip, we succeeded in so 
convincing him; and, to our intense astonish- 
ment, the result was that he suddenly produced 
a formidable armament of the effectiveness of 
which we had no suspicion; invaded our 


territories ; and in a moment plunged us into .- 


a war which we had never really meant to 
undertake, for which we were quite unprepared, 
and on the issue of which our entire South 
African province was now staked, since it was 
evident that, if we were beaten, the victorious 
Boers would be forced, whether they desired 
it or not, to make their work sure by uniting 
South Africa in an independent Afrikander 
Federation. What followed is fresh in the 
memory of the electorate. Defeat after defeat, 
battalions captured, garrisons besieged, Europe 
delightedly cheering. on the tiny but plucky 
combatant who was thrashing us, and The 
Times, ridiculous to the last, calling on the 
world to admire the fortitude and self-control 
with which the English nation bore humilia- 
tion and disaster without guillotining the 
Cabinet in the manner of mere foreigners. 


a 


28 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Of course this state of things did not con- 
tinue. The Government had got the nation 
into an appalling mess ; but when once it was 
brought to its senses by President Kruger’s 
cannon, it called up our huge reserves of men 
and energy; the excited nation responded ; 
and the Boers were overwhelmed by main 
force, and their territory annexed. That is 
the story up to the present moment. It is not 
a story of ministerial corruption and conspiracy, 
as the extreme Opposition papers maintain. 
The suspicion that Mr. Chamberlain conspired 
with Mr. Rhodes to annex the Transvaal is | 
no doubt one for which he has himself and 
the abrupt suppression of the Jameson Raid 
inquiry to thank; but the notion that Lord 
Salisbury and Mr. Balfour were more or less 
in the plot is only an excuse for that virtuous 
indignation which is the first need of the party 
politician, especially at election times. The 
truth is far too serious for such platform trifling. 
The real gravamen of the story is that the 
British Empire should be so ill-informed as 
to have a vast armament built up under its 
nose without its knowledge, and so boyishly 
governed that by overreaching itself in a public- 


SOUTH AFRICA 29 


school game of bluff it should have spent ten 
thousand of our lives and seventy millions of 
our money, besides ravaging with war a whole 
country in which there were not one-tenth as 
many grievances to be remedied as there are 
in the parish of Lambeth, within gunshot of 
the doors of its Parliament. And now, since 


the delinquents have not the moral courage to 2 


own that it was honest ignorance and not 
knavish statecraft that landed us in the war, 
we have the usual hypocrisies of public life: 
the casting back to waste-paper treaties, the 
hunting up of witnesses against the character 
of the Boers (who may truly boast, with the 
approval of every brave Englishman, that they 
have lost “all save honor’’), and even the 
absurd pretences that our countrymen in the © 
Transvaal found life unbearable because they 
were not allowed to sit on juries or to have 
the vote. From the pro-Outlander point of 
view there need have been no war: Kruger- 
ism, too old-fashioned to hold the rising Boer 
generations, was at the end of its tether; be- 
sides, as the Transvaal was threatening to 
slip meanwhile under complete control by one 
capitalist clique or another, it is reasonable to 


2 
——_ 


30 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


conclude that the capitalists have been as much 
overreached as the Government by the un- 
expected development of their attempt to hurry 
the process by pressure from Downing Street 
into a war which has made the Empire, and 
not themselves, master of their property. 

And here we see how the situation may be 
saved in virtue of the fact that there were 
better grounds for taking back the Rand than 
we were conscious of. Those mines belonged 
by law to the Government of the South African 
Republic ; and when the working of them was 
conceded to private adventurers, they were 
taxed and regulated on that understanding. 
They now belong by conquest to the British 
Empire. The shareholders are entitled to the 
value of their plant and works, measured by 
what it would cost the Government to replace 
them, and not a farthing more—not even to 
that if we claim the spoils for the victor. If we 
do not retain those mines in public ownership 
as firmly as Lord Penrhyn holds his slate 
quarries, we shall have it said of us that we 
were neither honest enough to keep out of 
the money market nor clever enough to secure 
our gains. The elector who does not ask his 


SOUTH AFRICA ol 


candidate whether he means the Rand gold to 
become and to remain the public property of 
the South African province of the Empire is 
not fit to exercise the franchise. 


THre SETTLEMENT. 


The settlement of South Africa, if it 1s to 
be an intelligent one, and not a mere sup- 
pression of popular liberties by the old Dublin 
Castle methods, will force us to ask ourselves 
what are the conditions of internal stability in 
a huge Empire as regards white colonists who 
can, if the bargain 1s a losing one for them, follow 
the example of the United States and declare 
their independence? It will hardly be disputed 
by any sane person that we cannot permanently 
hold Australasia, Canada, or South Africa by 
military force against the will of the white in- 
habitants. It is also clear that since we have 
no territorial aristocracy to train the villagers 
of these huge territories in reverence for the 
House of Lords, we must give them constitu- 
tions not only more republican in tone than 
that which satisfies the parish of St. James’s, 
Piccadilly, and the peasantry of the home 
counties, but involving wider genuine liberties 


aa 


32 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


and higher practical opportunities than the 
American constitution, which they can adopt 
if they please by secession. Any power or in- 
fluence over them which the British Govern- 
ment exercises must be exercised as a trust 
for the common interests, not only of the whole 
British Commonwealth, but of the whole of 
civilized society. Their incorporation must 
sensibly enhance their self-respect, enlarge their 
freedom, and confirm their security. There 
must be Freedom of Speech, Freedom of the 
Press, Freedom of Political Combination for 
all parties, including the party which will in- 
evitably exist In every province, and which, 
for the sharper criticism of our Government, 
it is desirable should exist, for the advocacy 
of separation and independence. There must 
be no such crimes as Rebellion or Treason to 
incriminate constitutional agitators with rioters 
and homicides, and no practically irresponsible 
High Commissioners to stir up strife by 
University high-table talk and such question- 
begging terms as rebel, traitor, disloyalty, and 
so forth. There must be a Representative 
Imperial Council with a veto on war, not 
necessarily in permanent session in London, but 


SOUTH AFRICA 33 


available whenever and wherever required, to 
which the provinces of the Empire or their 
neighbours can appeal; so that their lives and 
goods shall never hang on the competence of a 
casual proconsul. There must be Responsible 
Government in the sense of Ministers holding 
office only so long as they enjoy the confidence 
of an elected legislature. If, in an emergency 
such as the present, the Common Law has to be 
set aside for the moment, and what is called 
Martial Law substituted, the Military Tribunal 
should have no judicial powers except to detain 
responsibly accused prisoners until, on the re- 
storation of order, they can be released or tried 
under the ordinary safeguards of liberty. The 
least enlargement of this power makes Martial 
Law a specially objectionable form of Lynch 
Law, since officers, in the heat of warfare, 
easily confound justice with vengeance, and 
are, besides, professionally trained to regard 
the exercise of popular rights as mutinous.' 


* The extraordinary incident of the digging up and 
mutilation of the dead body of the Mahdi by Lord 
Kitchener, significantly paralleled the other day by the 
desecration of the European cemetery at Pekin by the 
Boxers, is a sufficient example of the way in which the 
military mind, after a campaign in a barbarous country, 
loses touch with civilization. 


34 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


With such constitutional rights and guaran- 
tees as these, colonists will cling to the Empire, 
and pioneers will invite us to annex them. 
Without them, every sturdy citizen of a British 
province over seas may at any moment cost us 
the expedition thither of seven of our soldiers: 
two for him to shoot, two to die of enteric 
fever, and three to wrestle with him for his 
gun, and -to wrestle, in the long run, unsuccess- 
fully. The simple answer to the military plan 
of holding the Empire by force is that it 1s im- 
possible. The pretension to it only destroys 
the prodigious moral force which is at our dis- 
posal the moment we make inclusion in the 
British Empire a privilege to be earned instead 
of a yoke to be enforced. Our one threat should 
be the threat of repudiation and the withdrawal 
of our officials. It would be so powerful that 
no British province would dare, in the face of it, 
to abuse its powers of self-government to in- 
stitute slavery or debase the standard of life 
for its workers. On the other hand, an invita- 
tion to fight, which is the correct description 
of a threat of force, would probably be accepted, 
unless we are to assume that the British’ pro- 
vincial will be less sturdy than the Boers have 
shewn themselves. 


SOUTH AFRICA 35 


What we have to do in South Africa, having 
rightly or wrongly shattered to pieces the 
governments of the South African Republic and 
the Orange Free State, is to guarantee a free 
constitution and responsible government with- 
in the Empire to the white inhabitants of these 
vast territories from the earhest moment at 
which it may be possible to make up the 
registers and summon a local Parliament (a 
necessary condition which will allow plenty of 
time for things to settle down), and in the 
meantime to restrict the powers of the military 
tribunals to committing persons for trial with 
the Habeas Corpus Act suspended, thereby 
relieving Lord Roberts from the odium of coun- 
tenancing vindictive and irritating sentences 
on persons who, as everybody knows, will be 
amnestied when order is restored. | 

Pending the election of local Parliaments, 
the new provinces should be granted the fol- 
lowing conditions : 

I. Formal inclusion in the British Empire, 
with the privilege of using its flag. 

» As this matter of the flag may easily cause more 


irritation than more substantial matters, we may as well 
bear in mind that it is not necessary to enforce privi- 


a D 


36 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


II. The charging of the mines and the land 
with a Royalty and a Land Tax to meet the 
expenses involved in setting up a new admin- 
istration, and to make it clear that the incor- 
poration into the Empire is a real one, and not 
merely an expedition to secure private property 
for European speculators at the public ex- 
pense. At the same time, since some addle- 
headed persons are discussing a “war in- 
demnity,”’ it is necessary to remind them that 
a war ending in annexation of the vanquished 
combatant cannot also end in an indemnity. 
When the Transvaal and Orange State are 
part of ourselves, to ‘‘ bleed them to the white,”’ 
in Bismarck’s phrase, would be to tweak our 
own nose. The war bill ought to be paid by an 
Imperial tax. As we have no Imperial taxa- 
tion as yet, we must pay it as best we can. 


leges. If they are real, they are soon appreciated. In 
the meantime, if any person wishes occasionally to wave 
the flag he may have fought bravely under, there is no 
reasoui why we should belittle ourselves by thwarting 
him. In any case, it is neither convenient nor custom- 
ary for a British province to be without a distinctive 
flag. The Canadian Dominion and the Australasian 
Colonies all have their own flags, officially recognized as 
such by the English Government. 


SOUTH AFRICA 37 


III. A provisional Factory and Mines Regu- 
lation Order, to secure the standard of life of 
the wage-earner, white or colored, in the way 
made plain to us by a century of experience. 

IV. A Measure for the protection of the na- 
tives, to be administered by Imperial officials, 
not subject to local parliamentary authority. 

The first three of these would be alterable 
by the local legislatures when elected, subject 
(since we have as yet no Imperial Council) to 
the Royal veto on legislation, which should be 
exercised so as to make inclusion in the British 
Commonwealth mean a guarantee of certain 
constitutional rights to all its subjects, includ- 
ing regulation of the relations of capital and 
labor so as to maintain the British standard 
of life as the highest in the world. 

Above all, it is important that the proclama- 
tion which shall establish the new Constitution, 
and announce the preparation of the registers 
on a thoroughly democratic suffrage for the 
election of the local legislatures, shall be made 
at once. Indeed, it is greatly to be regretted 
that it did not form part of Lord Roberts’s act 
of annexation. Until it is issued it will not 
be clear, either at home or abroad, that our 


<a 


38 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Imperialism is untainted with the lust of 
power over subject colonies. 


ARMY REFORM. 


STATES are forced at present to maintain 
formidable armaments, in spite of Peace Con- 
ferences, by their fear of the pugnacity. and 
violence which are still common to civilization 
and barbarism. It is to be hoped that the 
Powers will soon have the good sense to take 
concerted steps to use their armaments as an 
international police to suppress war, on the 
sufficient ground that it Interrupts the world’s 
traffic, upsets its arrangements, debauches its 
citizens and its newspapers, and is in every 
way a costly and intolerable nuisance. In the 
meantime, it 1s of the most vital importance 
that the demand for national defence—a de- 
mand before which, in an emergency, all 
popular rights and liberties would go down— 
should not be made the excuse for imposing 
continental militarism upon us. We must 
therefore, even from the anti-militarist point of 


ARMY REFORM © 39 


view, face the question of how to maintain an 
armament on the modern scale. 


SHALL WE HAVE CONSCRIPTION ? 


The real objection to the continental military 
systems and to ours is not the violation of per- 
sonal liberty implied either by conscription 
and compulsory enlistment, or by compulsory 
service after voluntary enlistment, but the 
demoralizing effect of barrack life and the 
consequent bad character and industrial in- 
efficiency of the soldier. The commanders 
who now make speeches about the virtues 
inculcated by military-service are the very 
men who induced us to establish the short- 
service system by testifying that the old soldier 
was a humbug. The fact that the agencies 
for finding employment for discharged soldiers 
are still very unsuccessful. shews that the 
young soldier is no greater a favorite, except 
in war pictures, than the old one was. There 
is nothing surprising in this. The soldier is 
the only Englishman who is now legally a 
slave and an outlaw, retained in the service by 
force, and subject to a special form of law 
which sends him, without a jury, to prisons in 


e 
——_ 


40 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


which corporal punishment is still liberally 
inflicted. Stupid and careless officers thus 
find routine (which they mistake for discipline) 
maintained in time of peace for them by mere 
brute coercion, and go into the field without 
ever having had their capacity for command 
tested, with what result we have lately seen 
at Modder River, Magersfontein, Spion Kop, 
and other battlefields. The incompetence dis- 
played has been so flagrant and scandalous 
that two generals have been sent home, a 
third saved from disgrace by being besieged 
until his blunder was forgotten, the name of a 
fourth blunderer hushed up, and the criticisms 
and confessions of Sir Redvers Buller actually 
published, whilst he was still in the field, for 
all his men to read. On the other hand, the 
Boers, who are not soldiers, but citizens, have 
astonished the world by their efficiency, and 
have never been at a loss for capable com- 

manders. The obyvious.conclusion is_that the 
soldier 1 is a failure, and the Jilitiaman, | like 


eg 
aL ST OOS 


fighting civilian—a success. 
We suggest that the force with which 
England, as a modern Power, must supplant 


ARMY REFORM 4] 


the obsolete British standing Army, which 
has never really got away from its origin as a 
pageant of royal footmen, must be created by 
giving to the whole male population an effective 
training in the use of arms, without removing 
them from civil life. This can be done, with- 
out conscription or barrack life, by so amend- 
ing the Factory Acts as to extend the age for 
‘half-time ’’ employment to twenty-one, and 
devoting the thirty hours per week thus gained 
from the factory and the mine to a combina- 
tion of physical exercises, technical education, 
education in civil citizenship (of which more 
hereafter), and field trainmg in the use of 
modern weapons. No payment beyond a 
supper would be needed to make the drills 
popular ; there would be no barrack life, and 
even less interference with civil life and liberty 
than there is in Switzerland; and we should 
have always available for home defence millions 
of men capable of dealing with a much larger 
force of mere soldiers. 

From this force we could obtain by volun- 
tary enlistment a picked professional force of 
engineers, artillery and cavalry, and as large 
a garrison for outlying provinces as we chose 


42 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


to pay for, if we made it attractive by the 
following reforms: 

I. Full civil rights, including the abolition 
of compulsory celibacy and of residence in 
barracks when off duty on home service. 

II. A ‘living wage,” according to the 
current standard, for the members of the pro- 
fessional force as for any other public cfficials. 

III. Service up to the age of superannua- 
tion, and then an adequate pension, with the 
ordinary right to leave the force at any time 
on giving reasonable notice, as in a municipal 
Fire Brigade. 

IV. A salary for officers on the civil scale, 
with a sufficiently high standard of preliminary 
qualifications and daily work to make their 
. profession a serious one. 

Under such conditions there would be no 
need for martial law and brutal physical 
punishments, as there 1s when service is 
compulsory. ‘There would be no discharged 
short-service men, spoiled as citizens and dis- 
carded as soldiers. Men would do much more 
for the service than they do now. And an in- 
capable officer would lose his men and be 
found out before it was too late. Old soldiers: 


ARMY REFORM 43 


will no doubt assure us that discipline cannot 
be maintained under such conditions. Sensible 
men will ask them how discipline is maintained 
in the Royal Irish Constabulary or in a muni- 
cipal Police Force, in our Fire Brigades or by 
our railway companies, where the difficulties 
are as great and the dangers often much 
greater. 


Tue War OFrice. 

It is quite useless to substitute for these 
proposals a reform of the War Office. The 
War Office is simply the general business 
department and clearing house of the army; 
and in the long run every army gets the sort 
of business department it deserves. The 
Crimean War exposed the folly of our military 
system with sensational thoroughness. For 
ten years it was the fashion to abuse red tape 
and insist on reform. But the civilian public 
did not suffer; and the soldiers and officers 
who did had neither the political freedom nor 
the business capacity to agitate for and 
organize reform. And accordingly, fifty 
years later, we are again denouncing mis- 
management at home and glorifying misman- 


44 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


agement in the field exactly as in the fifties. 
The truth is, the War Office as it is exactly 
suits the commissioned ranks of the army as it 
is. Both are primarily institutions for pro- 
viding select positions for gentlemen, and they 
fulfil that purpose precisely as gentlemen like 
to see it fulfilled. 


CHINA. 


Tue most obvious difficulty raised by the 
Chinese question has not as yet been mentioned 
by any English statesman. China, like Turkey, 
maintains a civilization which differs from 
Kuropean and American civilization. Without 
begging the question as to whether the Chinese 
civilization is a lower or higher one than ours, 
we have to face the fact that its effect is to 
prevent Europeans from trading in China, or 
from making railway and postal and telegraph 
routes across it for the convenience of the 
world in general. Now the notion that a 
nation has a right to do what it pleases with 
its own ‘ter ritory, without reference to the 





CHINA 45 


interests of the rest of the world, is no more 
tenable from the International Socialist point 
of view—that_is, the point of view of the 
twentieth century—than the notion that a 
landlord has_a right to do what he likes with 
his estate without-reference to the interests of 
his neighbours. _Nearly_half a century ago 
wé—made--war-on- China—and_forced_ her. to 
admit our ships and give us a footing in 
certain ports. In concert .with the Powers, 
we have just had to send an armed expedition 
to the Chinese capital to force them to tolerate 
the presence andthe commercial.and_political 
activity of Europeans. Here we are asserting 
and enforcing international rights of travel 
and trade. But the right to trade is a very 
comprehensive one: it involves a right to 
insist upon a settled government which can 
keep the peace and enforce agreements. When 
a native government of this order is impossible, 
the foreign trading power must set one up. 
This is a common historical origin of colonies 
and annexations; and it may, for practical 
purposes, be regarded as an irresistible natural 
force, which will lead sooner or later to the 
imposition by the Powers of commercial 


46 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


civilization on all countries which are still 
refractory to it. 

Unfortunately, the Powers, not excluding 
the British Empire, are apt to make this an 
excuse for purely piratical conquests of weaker 
States. Against this tendency it is necessary 
to protest. Lhe value of a State to the world 
lies in the quality of its civilization, not in the 
magnitude ofitsarmaments. If such an event 
as the annexation and assimilation of Switzer- 
land by Russia were possible, it would be a 
calamity which the rest of Europe would be 
justified in peremptorily preventing, whereas 
if Switzerland were to annex Russia and 
liberalize her institutions, the rest of Europe 
would breathe more freely. There is therefore 
no_ question of the steam-r rollering of little 
States because.they_are. little, _< any more than 
of their maintenance _in deference to romantic 
nationalism.. The State which obstructs inter- 
national civilization will have to go, be it big 
or little. That which advances it should be 
defended by all the Western Powers. Thus 
huge China and little Monaco may share the 
same fate, little Switzerland and the vast 


United States the same fortune. 


_ 


; 
f 
ae 


CHINA 47 


The fate of China, however, is far from sealed. 
The Powers, including ourselves, have been 
guilty of flat piracy in China, and that, too, 
under the white flag of their legations stead 
‘of the black one. They tried to partition 
China; and it was not until they found that 
they were more likely to fight over the division 
of the spoils than to secure them that they 
drew back and professed the policy of the Open 
Door. Our attitude in the matter is perhaps 
best shown by the fact that we call the national 
movement in China to resist partition ‘‘ the 
Boxer rebellion.” It is no more a rebellion 
than the destruction of the Armada was. 

Still, there remain our international rights 
of travel and trade, with the right to settled 
government which they involve. With these 
the present institutions of the Chinese Empire 
are incompatible ; and these institutions, ac- 
cordingly, must go. If the Chinese themselves 
cannot establish or ‘der in our sense,.the Powers _. 
must establish itfor them. And in undertaking 
our share of that establishment, we must pro- 
ceed on the principle, directly opposed to that 
of Non-Interference, that we have international 
rights of travelling, trading, efficient police 


—_ 


48 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


protection, and communication by road, rail, 
and telegraph in every part of the globe. Free 
Trade enables us to claim these rights with a 
better countenance than any other Power; but 
all the Powers claim them implicitly, and must 
finally do so explicitly, if only to put them- 
selves in an intelligible moral position. 
Clearly, however, these claims are reciprocal. 
If we have a right to go to China, the China- 
man has a right to come to us. But the huge 
Australasian section of the British Empire 
excludes Chinese, not as foreign devils, but, 
let us politely admit, as men so industrious, 
so docile, so skilful and so frugal, that they 
cheapen labour to a point at which the more 
expensive white man starves. The Austral- 
asians argue that whether the white man is 
worth his extra cost or not, they must not 
degrade his standard of life, and must there- 
fore exclude the Chinaman under existing 
circumstances. Now, even if we forbear the 
obvious retort that the existing circumstances 
can and should be altered by establishing and 
enforcing a minimum standard of sanitation 
housing and remuneration for yellow and white 
men alike, we had better not shirk the fact 


CHINA 49 


that to exclude a subject of the Son of Heaven 
from our dominions is one thing: to exclude 
a subject of a Government established and 
guaranteed by the British, Russian, German, 
French, and American Powers is quite another. 
Clearly, if we meddle with China, and_our_ 
interference “does not relieve the poverty that 
produces emigration, we shall find ourselves in 
a Yellow Muddle that may bring the Chinese 
War into our own streets. If_the. Powers, to 
avert this danger, agree to deny to the China- 
man the international rights they force him 
to concede to_ Europe, competitive capitalistic 
exploitation of Chinese cheap labour on_the 
spot will lead to a clamor in this country for 
protection against imports from China. On 
this point Imperialist statesmen must make up 
their minds promptly; for imports produced 
by foreign sweated labor have been in the 
past the most potent instruments of the down- 
fall of Empires through Imperialism.’ 


* Tt should be hardly necessary to say here that the 
words Empire, Imperial, Imperialist, and so forth, are 
pure claptraps, used by educated people merely to avoid 
dictionary quibbles, and by uneducated people in ignor- 
ance of their ancient meaning. What the colonies are | 

= 


L” 


od 


50 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Free TRADE. 


The decision should, as far as it rests with 
Fngland, and lies between Free Trade and 
Import Duties, be firmly in favor of Free 
Trade. Socialism has demolished the Man- 
chester School and discredited the Free Trade 
Utopia of its economists and dreamers; but 
all the king’s horses and all the king’s men 
can no more set up import duties again than 
Napoleon could bring back the marquises. 
What Socialism can do is to guide and develop 
export trade on the one hand, and on the 
other to nationalize such necessary trades as 
agriculture, engincering, etc., if the course of 
free trade threatens to take them abroad (as 
it might take abroad the business of national 
defence if we put up our military expeditions 
to be tendered for by competing contractors). 
Foreign imports cannot harm English industry 
as a whole: what they can do, often very 
beneficially, is to drive capital and labor out 
of one method or one trade into another. 


driving at is a Commonwealth; and that is what the 
English citizen means, too, by the Empire, when he 
means anything at all. : 


CHINA Si 


Thus employers may be driven from the 
sweating-den method, which is wasteful and 
cruel, into the regulated factory method, 
which is cheaper and better, though it requires 
abler direction and larger capitals. Or a 
trade may be exterminated by the fact that it 
can be done better abroad than at home. It 
is, of course, our business to see that the 
superiority of the foreign product in quality 
or cheapness is not due to the superiority of 
foreign education or consular organization and 
activity ; but when a trade is fairly beaten, 
and is not a necessary part of a complete 
communal life, its capital and labor must seek 
a new outlet, and should not be encouraged 
to sit down and cry vainly for a protective 
tax on consumers. Now it may prove ‘that 
the qualities which have made the Chinaman so 
dreaded a competitor in British and American 
labor markets may .enable him in his own 
country, even under the lee of a Labor Code, 
to maintain his health, self-respect, and in- 
dustrial efficiency, and bring up his family 
well, on a smaller wage than the Englishman 
in England can. If by doing so he can exter- 
minate the wretched trades typified in Hood’s 
E 


—_ 


52 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Song of the Shirt (which is as true to-day 
as it was when it was written, in spite of all 
the cultured tears that have dropped on it), 
siving us the articles these simple trades 
produce without the misery they now cost, 
so much the better for us. The labor they 
now degrade and the capital they waste will 
then produce exports to pay for them; and 
the various English industries will compete 
with each other for this export trade. And 
as production for export depends for its success 
mainly on quality of product, knowledge of 
foreign markets, and organization of produc- 
tion, whilst production of cheap sweated 
articles for consumption on the spot demands 
no higher qualifications than the common 
East End sweater possesses, the extermina- 
tion of a sweated trade by Chinese competi- 
tion, and its replacement by an extension of 
export trade, is an advantage to be courted 
and not a calamity to be staved off. 


‘6 PanEeM ET CIRCENSES.”’ 


The real danger of adding vast and pro- 


IA ARTS 


digiously fertile provinces to the Empire lies 
Ub oltT anti-soclalistle yaaa geen 


CHINA 53 


organization of our industry , and consequently 
the employment of our sasmncl, to the hazards 
of commercial_speculation. It is impossible 
to forget that in the Roman Empire it proved 
cheaper to make Rome a parasite on the 


labor of the provinces, and keep the Roman / 
proletariat quiet by providing them gratuit- | 
ously with bread and circuses, than to invest | 


capital and organize industry at home. Already 
our imports exceed our exports, not merely 


f 


somes 


on paper through the omission of freightage, | 


cte., from the calculation, but in reality ; 


and the day is coming when it will be as | 
possible for all England to live barrenly on | 


unpaid-for imports representing rent, dividends 


and tribute from without, as it was for Nome, | 


or as it is for Eastbourne at present. Hitherto | 


the possibility has not troubled practical men, 
because we have not had provinces on the 
toman scale. But if the industrial develop- 
ment of China and the Soudan placed us in 
possession of a Tom Tiddler’s Ground, to 
which capital emigrated whilst labor remained 
unemployed at home, we should soon have to 
choose between ‘“‘panem et circenses” and 
revolution, if we were still too stupid and 


54 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


selfish for Socialism, which, with regard to any 
particular industry, or to all industry, is the 
true alternative to I'ree Trade. 

It may be said that the moral is not to face 
Socialism, but to let China alone. But how if 
thé other Powers will not let China alone, 
or if China will not let us alone? The 
practical moral is that Empire will ruin us, as 
it ruined earlier civilizations, unless we recog- 
nize that unearned income, whether for British 
individuals living unproductively on British 
labor or British Islands living unproductively 
on foreign labor, is a cancerous growth in 
the body politic, and is no more necessary 
to commerce than it is to the public ser- 
vices. And we must lay the foundations of 
International Socialism, as we are laying the 
foundation of National Socialism, by making 
the British flag carry with it wherever it flies 
a factory code and a standard of life secured 
by a legal minimum wage (of which more 
follow ne flag ‘when ‘the flag. has followed 
irresponsible enuieens who ‘ purchase.’’ con- 
cessions from tribal chiefs who do not know 
what concessions mean :. civilization must_ 


CHINA 55 


follow the flag, And it is becoming more and 
more our concern that no flag that does not 
carry a reasonable standard of life with it shall 
be the flag of a Great Power. All our future 
alliances and co-operations with the other 
Powers for the settlement of the East, or of 
Africa, should be directed to this great end. 
It is because we have at present no social 
principle of this kind to guide us in our 
treaties that we flounder so lamentably in 
foreign policy as we do, and are so invariably 
bested by the old-fashioned dynastic imperial- 
ism of Russia, which by ruthless governmental 
energy and pioneering grit has taken the 
northern half of the continent of Asia whilst | 
we have been shirking our manifest destiny 
in South Africa. We plume ourselves on 
being the only people that can colonize and 
civilize foreign provinces, as if Siberia and 
Algeria, Tunis and Martinique, did not exist. 
In_truth we are the only nation that ever_ 
raised the _uselessness_ofretaining colonies 
into a political doctrine. 





PART If 
HOME AFFAIRS 





59 


HOME AFFAIRS. 


Our Home Affairs are rather a painful sub- 
ject just at present. We have justified our 
war with the Boers on the ground that they 
were guilty of lése-democracy, nepotism, and 
financial corruption. At the same time more 
than a third of our adult males (not to mention 
our eleven millions of adult women) are pur- 
posely disfranchised by impossible conditions of 
registration ;* and the House of Commons is 
practically if not legally barred to all but rich 
men. Our entire diplomatic service, and the 
most influential positions in our home adminis- 
trations, are openly manned by nepotism. 
Cabinet Ministers cannot prevent their rela- 
tives acquiring shares in companies engaged 
in military industries which are nursed by 
the Government ; the House of Commons 
represents private commercial interests as 


* The number of adults in the British Isles in 1898 
was estimated at 21,474,391, and the number of adult 
males at 10,215,286. The number of registered electors 
(including many duplicates) was 6,528,629, 


e 
——_ 


60 FABIANISM AND TIIE EMPIRE 


much as any Chamber of Commerce ; and the 
supposed alarming spread of pauper lunacy has 
Just been at least partly accounted for by the 
fact that our relieving officers are bribed by 
asylums to bring them patients, and our doctors 
bribed by the relieving officers to certify the 
patients’ insanity. The European spectator 
would be more than human if he spared us the 
obvious remark that those who live in glass 
houses should not throw lyddite bombs. 


Tur Worxkina CLASSES. 


Accordingly, the working classes, who have 
deliberately chosen plutocracy for the sake of 
its pickings, have never been so satisfied poli- 
tically as they are at present. Their masters 
are spending money; and they are touch- 
ing their hats. Rich candidates smile whilst 
they are being fleeced for ‘‘ subscriptions,” 
and poor ones withdraw disheartened. Our 
tactful aristocracy are, as ever, pleasant-man- 
nered and ‘willing to do anything for the 
poor except get off their backs.” Our public 
men are only too glad to interpret Democracy 
as meaning that the people shall express their 
wishes, and the statesman, their obedient ser- 


HOME AFFAIRS 61 


vant, shall carry them out. It is not possible 
to speak too contemptuously of such an attitude, 
in which laziness of character and laziness of 
intellect in governors and governed find re- 
ciprocal subservience a convenient working ar- 
rangement, and in which no political doctrine 
seems in touch with facts except Lord Rose- 
bery’s opinion that the popular course to take is 
to drop programs, win the Derby, and remind 
the nation, in a vein of genial expostulation, 
that Englishmen somehow generally muddle 
through all right. And so, since the working 
classes, with their huge voting majority, will 
neither help themselves politically nor even de- 
cently support the handful of labor representa- 
tives who have fought their way into Parliament 
in spite of them, their interests will receive little 
attention, and that little mostly verbal, at the 
election now in progress. The Minority Report 
of the last Royal ‘Commission on Labour 
(1891-4), signed by Messrs. Wiliam Abraham, 
Michael Austin, James Mawdsley and Tom 
Mann, sets forth all that still disgraces us in 
our poverty, our sweating, our excessive hours 
of labor, our carnage in the shunting yard, 
our poisoning in the chemical factory, our 


—_ 


62 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


steady wholesale manufacture of undersized 
Imperial Britons im slums, the shortcomings in 
our Factory Code, and the inadequacy of the 
powers of our local authorities. On these mat- 
ters the Fabian Society has nothing new to say 
on behalf of the wage-earners as a class. Its 
General Election Manifesto of 1892, its Plan of 
Campaign for Labor of 1894, are still in print, 
as true, and as little regarded by the majority of 
those to whom they were addressed, as when 
they were written. We have no intention of 
rewriting them. | 


LABorR Poticy. 


Fortunately, government cannot be quite 
reduced to a mere traffic in doles and votes 
. between Ministers and people who make them- 
selves troublesome. Our Home Policy must 
include a Labor ‘Policy, whether the laborer 
wants it or not, directed to securing for him 
what, for the nation’s sake, even the 2 poorest of 
its, subjects should have. It is clear that em- 
ployers who make fortunes, not _by their skill _ 
in organizing-industry so as to secure the best | 
possible supply of our needs, but by their rapa- 
city In screwing down the oa of the product ° 


given to the laborer in wages, are living on 
the nation’s capital in the most ruinous way, 
besides creating ugliness and noisomeness, 
disease“and crime, for which other people have 
_to pay. Pes They are. _parasites— ofthe most 
~ mischievous kind, conducting parasitic in- 
duistries, and sweating workers who are them- 
selves ‘parasitic, sometimes on relatives en gaged 
in-genuinely productive industries, but more 
often on the Poor Rate and on private charities. 
Until about ten years ago it was left to the 
‘Trade Unions to fight against this abomination. 
Then some of the newly constituted local 
authorities took up the question ; established 
a “moral minimum” wage for unskilled 
labor; and pledged themselves to pay 

Trade Union rates to artisans. Finall the 


2mm 


1893. It 3 is now. Foie dat soaseetiidon 
wages are, for millions of our people, starvation 
wages, and that starvation wages mean national 
deterioration, parasitism in our industries, and 
fortunes made by unscrupulous and incompet- 


ent employers at the expense of their neigh- 


Pe 


ed 


64 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


bors. Unfortunately, the activity of Trade 
“Unions and local authorities covers only a 
corner of the vast field of labor. The time 
has now come for a resolute attempt to sup- 
press sweating by the legal enforcement of 


A Miyimum Wace ror Lapor. 


At present the most prosperous industries 
from the public point of view are those in 
which Trade Unionism and Factory Legisla- 
tion have between them enforced a minimum 
wage and a maximum working day. But the 
electoral pressure of such formidable Trade 
Unionism as is possible in the cotton factory 
and the coal mine can only be wielded by a 
select and relatively small section of our 
wage-earners. For the millions of unskilled 
and half-skilled laborers, as for women and 
for young people, there is no real protection 
but the law; and the law must come to their 
rescue, not in response to such inarticulate 
and unorganized agitation as they are capable 
of, but because it is not good for the whole 
body politic that they should be neglected, 
overworked, and starved. The chief objection 
alleged against a legal minimum wage is that 


HOME AFFAIRS 65 


its enforcement is inquisitorial and impossible. 
‘This is in a sense true, just as it is true that 
our Income Tax is inquisitorial and impossible, 
and has been resisted and discredited in I'rance 
aud America on that ground. Nevertheless we 
contrive to raise a handsome revenue by In- 
come ‘lax ; and we should reap a much hand- 
somer one in national soundness and reduced 
disease bills, crime bills, and inefficiency bills 
(the heaviest of the three) by a Legal Minimum 
Wage, in spite of all necessary exceptions and 
undetected evasions. As usual, the cry of 
impossibility comes from people who do not 
know that already the living wage is fixed in 
large industries, not by the employers dealing 
separately with their workmen, but by an 
arbitrator standing between the whole body of 
employers and the whole body of workmen. 
To make the arbitrator a public Commissioner, 
and enforce his awards legally, is clearly the 
way to begin; and the novices who imagine 
s Minimum Wage to be impracticable mean 
only that they do not know how to begin. 
The experience of the last six years in New 
Zealand under its Industrial Conciliation 
and Arbitration Act has proved that commer- 


66 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


cial prosperity does not depend on our method 
of allowing industrial disputes to right them- 
selves by strikes and lock-outs, which, as the 
public hardly seems to realize, are really sieges 
and blockades in which more lives are lost 
through privation than an average South 
African battle costs. Victoria has for the last 
three years systematically fixed and success- - 
fully enforced a legal minimum wage in certain 
trades by Trade Boards. New South Wales 
is now following suit. But we go calmly on 
in our old lazy and wasteful way, though we 
have had such lessons as the upset of the 
Government’s shipbuilding program by a lock- 
out in the engineering trade, and the spoiling 
of the naval maneuvres by the Welsh coal 
strike. 

It is not necessary here to go into the 
details of the measure further than to say that 
Trade Unions should retain their present 
freedom from attack through litigation, except 
as regards awards under the proposed law, 
and that no arbitration law will be workable 
unless based on the full legal recognition, 
expressed in the Act, of the Living Wage. 
On this basis it will not be difficult to devise 


HOME AFFAIRS 67 


the requisite administrative machinery, which 
will probably take the form of elected ‘Trade 
Boards for different industries. Such Boards 
would be needed also for the piecemeal applica- 
tion of the General Eight Hours Act suggested 
in the Minority Report of the Labour Com- 
mission, already alluded to. 


68 


THE HOUSING QUESTION. 


UnpbER existing circumstances the supply of 
decent dwellings for the wage-earning class 
is far in defect of the demand and of the 
requirements of public health. A working 
man often has to pay his landlord simply as 
much as can possibly be screwed out of. his 
wages: that is to say, much more than he 
can thriftily afford. Consequently, if a mini- 
mum wage were established, the slum landlord 
would promptly attempt, and in many cases 
successfully, to pocket at least a part of it in 
increased rent. This must be met by re- 
moving the restrictions which now prevent 
local authorities from providing housing 
accommodation. Without this any effective 
enforcement of the law against overcrowding 
is impossible. 

But municipal housing, though a necessary 
remedy, is too slow to be sufficient. In some 
of the blackest spots on the poverty map of 
London, housing schemes have been on foot 
for ten years past without getting beyond the 


THE HOUSING QUESTION 69 


stage of paper and red tape involved by the 
negotiations of the Vestry, the Local Govern- 
ment Board, and the County Council concern- 
ing the requirements of an unworkable Act. 
It is easy to say that this state of things will 
cease zf the house-farmers who now consti- 
tute the majorities on our Vestries are not 
elected (they are quite sure to be) as Borough 
Councillors under the new Act, and zf the 
Local Government Board is reformed so that 
it will no longer be forced to obstruct all local 
activity in order to save itself from being 
crushed by the weight of fresh business which 
the recent wholesale creation of new local 
authorities has put upon it, and 2f anew Act 
is passed giving local authorities full powers 
to hold land and build without any restriction as 
to “‘ working-class dwellings” and “ unhealthy 
areas.”’ Doubtless these things will have to 
happen; but in the meantime we shall continue 
to raise our local revenues by a method of 
rating which is, in effect, a heavy tax on houses. 
Imagine the effect of shifting this tax to any 
other necessity of life: say bread, or matches. 
Popular resistance would be overwhelming: 
the tax would have to be shifted to income. 


—_ 


10 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


But as we are accustomed to our rating system, 
we tolerate the taxation of houses, and never 
think of its effect on the supply. | 

We therefore suggest that the socialistic 
policy of Grants in Aid, which the anti- 
Socialist Liberals have opposed as a policy of 
Doles, can be extended to the housing industry. 
In the Parliament now being elected, the five 
years period of the Agricultural Rating Act 
will expire. By that time the erroneous 
opposition to its principle, having received no 
popular encouragement, will have lost counten- 
ance; but the objection to its evident favorit- 
ism towards the country landlords will remain, 
and will lead to a demand for extending its 
benefits. It will then be quite possible to 
provide for the payment by the Treasury of 
rates, or half rates, on well-built sanitary 
houses fulfilling such conditions as would 
insure that the tenants belonged to the wage- 
earning class, and that the rents were not 
higher than a fair percentage on the rateable 
value... Such an arrangement would stimulate 


1 There is a precedentfor this. The Inhabited House 
Duty is remitted on dwellings under £20 annual value, 
provided the local Medical Officer of Health certifies that 


THE HOUSING QUESTION (1 


both municipal and private enterprise in the 
matter of housing ; and if its cost were met 
by a further graduation of the Income Tax, 
or by any other of the various financial 
expedients for recovering the unearned in- 
crement for the benefit of the community, it 
would be, in principle, a model measure. 


‘they comply with the local bye-laws and are sanitary. 
Unfortunately there are sometimes no bye-laws of any 
value. ‘‘ Sanitary”? is a vague term; and the public 
body employing the Medical Officer is often manned by 
slum landlords. The Medical Officer’s certificate, to be 
of any use, must give precise details as to cubic space, 
sanitary appliances, and the number of persons for 
whose use they are available, etc., in addition to the 
usual general terms descriptive of the condition of the 
premises, 


¢2 


MUNICIPAL TRADING. 


CENTURIES of private trading and _ political 
corruption have left us with a strong and per- 
nicious tradition that every public need means 
a job for a commercial company or a contractor. 
This has developed a tyranny of joint stock 
companies, whose directors, promoters and 
shareholders, not to mention the moneyed 
classes in search of lucrative investments, re- 
gard the modern system of Municipal Works 
Departinents, carrying out public works at cost 
price to the ratepayers without the interven- 
tion of a contractor, as a monstrous invasion of 
the opportunities of private enterprise. This 
year the Government, which has shewn itself 
on all such questions as easily gullible as 
English Governments usually are, let itself be 
persuaded to hold an inquiry into Municipal 
Trading, the wires being pulled by speculators 
in telephones and electric lighting and traction, 
who, hoping to make the needs of the towns in 
these supplies a source of profit, found that the 
local authorities preferred to do the work them- 


MUNICIPAL TRADING io 


selves. The game of these speculators is to 
induce the Government to refuse powers to 
local authorities, and so force the citizens into 
dealing with private companies. Now the sup- 
ply of electric power or any other commodity 
is to a commercial company only a means to 
the end of getting the largest profit and the 
highest interest on its capital that can be ex- 
torted from the consumer in price. A local 
authority, on the contrary, borrows capital from 
investors, or even from the central Government 
itself, at a lower rate than any company can 
borrow on the Stock Exchange. Its members 
cannot share any profits, and have no interest 
except to secure their seats by supplying their 
constituents as well and as cheaply as possible. 
The movement against Municipal Trading, 
though some of its spokesmen are acting in well- 
meaning ignorance, is at bottom a commercial 
intrigue to prevent the ratepayer from escaping 
from the claws of the companies. If any 
candidate at the election shews the slightest 
weakness on this subject, he should be voted 
against without regard to party. And the 
opportunity should be seized by the next 
Government to enlarge the powers of local 


ie 
——_ 


74 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


bodies until they are able to force private 
enterprise into its proper sphere, which is not 
the exploitation of common nceds and ascer- 
tained processes, but the sphere of invention, 
initiative, and the creation of new needs and 
new industries. There is an encouraging pre- 
cedent for this in the action of the present 
Government when it was betrayed by Lord 
Salisbury’s old-fashioned ignorance of local 
government, and the clamor of the financial 
scamps who, with their newspapers, form part 
of the following of all Governments, into an 
attempt to destroy the London County Council. 
When it came to the point, Lord Salisbury and 
Mr. Balfour very sensibly confessed that they 
had blundered, and changed their Bill for the 
demolition of the Council into an Act under 
which the financial scamps, hoist with their 
own petard, will have to deal, no longer with 
sleepy and incompetent Vestries, but with 
twenty-eight strong Borough Councils, plus 
the County Council established more safely than 
ever. 

It does not follow, unfortunately, that future 
attempts of the same kind may not be more 
successful. Within the last few years the 


MUNICIPAL TRADING (5 


political self-satisfaction of the nation, and the 
insignificance of the disconcerted Opposition, 
have raised a new terror in English politics: 
the terror of retrogression. Formerly it was 
possible to say that in England each successive 
Government would begin loyally where its 
forerunner left off, without attempting to undo 
its work. Indeed, this is the true criterion of 
a nation’s fitness for parliamentary govern- 
ment; for it is evident that if our parties were 
to spend their alternate periods of office in 
repealing the legislation achieved by their 
opponents during the previous period, we 
should have to find some other way of con- 
ducting the affairs of the nation. But there 
have been moments lately when the Govern- 
ment shewed signs of yielding to the corrupt 
pressure of purely commercial interests, and 
attacking our Factory Code. It took half a 
century of successive Factory Acts, met by 
successive methods of evasion, to evolve the 
Acts of 1847, 1850, and 1874, which defeated 
the sweating manufacturers by abolishing the 
Relay System. - By far the worst mistake the 
present Government has made has been the 
‘introduction of a Bill under which it would 


Ps 


16 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


have been possible to re-establish the Relay 
System and re-introduce factory sweating in a 
form with which our Factory Inspectorate 
could not cope. And most unfortunately this 
came, not as an isolated blunder, like the 
original draft of the London Government Act, 
but as the climax to an administration of the 
Factory Code by the Home Secretary, and a 
use of his large powers of government by ad- 
ministrative order, which had spread conster- 
nation among those who knew the gravity of 
the interests at stake. We suggest to the 
Conservative Party that it cannot afford to 
have reactionary Home Secretaries. It tried 
that expensive luxury from 1886 to 1892; 
and if the forthcoming elections were as 
dependent on Home Affairs as the 1892 elec- 
tion was, Sir Matthew White Ridley would 
probably cost his party as dear as Mr. Matthews 
did. 

In short, then, if the electors know their own 
interests, there must be no debasing of the 
English standard of life, and there must be no 
attempt to suppress municipal freedom of trade. 
If manufacturers have not sufficient business 
ability to make money without sweating their 


MUNICIPAL TRADING C7 


employees and dodging the Factory Inspector, 
they must do without fortunes and find some 
occupation suited to the limits of their capacity. 
And if the English citizen chooses to supply 
himself with electric, pneumatic, or hydraulic 
power, light railways or tramways, artificial 
stone for municipal paving or forage for muni- 
cipal horses, cottages and block dwellings, 
water, light and heat, with fittings and stoves, 
and indeed any commodity whatsoever, at 
cost price, with capital costing only 3 or 4 
per cent. on the joint credit of himself and 
his fellow-ratepayers, he must not be forbidden 
in the interests of parliamentary joint stock 
directors, who boast of the millions of the 
capitals of their own companies, but denounce 
the imposing growth of municipal capital as 
‘‘a huge increase of local indebtedness.’”’ We 
invite Ministers who feel impressed by such 
directorial rhetoric to glance for five minutes 
through a Municipal Year-Book, and consider 
whether they had not better be guided by the 
irresistible development of public enterprise 
they will find recorded there than by the 
oraculations of city gentlemen who are sup- 
posed to understand industrial politics because 


£ 


78 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


—if the unmannerliness of the comparison may 
be excused for the sake of its exactitude—they 
have raced through life with their noses to the 
slot of the money market. | 

At the same time the reaction from the 
narrowness and sordidness of competitive pri- 
vate trade, and the recent exposure by the late 
Lord Chief Justice of its omnipresent corrup-— 
tion, need not carry us into a new idolatry of 
local authorities. It is urgently desirable that 
their present powers of appointing unqualified 
persons to municipal offices should be abol- 
ished, and the municipal services filled in the 
same manner as the gencral Civil Service. At 
present, in many places, nepotism and the use 
of municipal appointments to reward elec- 
tioneering services are almost as rampant in 
parochial as in high Imperial affairs ; and no 
precaution has been taken against them in the 
recent legislation on the subject. The new 
Municipal Borough Councils, for example, may, 
if they please, appoint as clerks men who can- 
not read nor write. Of course they will not 
go so far as that ; but they will certainly fall 
just as short of the opposite extreme, since they 
can hardly be expected to surrender volun- 


MUNICIPAL TRADING 79 


tarily their coveted powers of patronage by 
spontaneously adopting a system of examina- 
tion and selection by independent and disin- 
terested educational bodies. 

Another important municipal question 1s 
that of the water supply. In view of the 
modern developments of house-to-house distri- 
bution of mechanical energy, electric, hydrau- 
lic and pneumatic, from generating centres, 
the need for keeping water power in public 
hands, and out of the hands of private syndi- 
cates (except as lessees of the public) is of 
vast importance. Turther, the difficulties of 
ordinary water supply are becoming compli- 
cated by the practice of bringing water to towns 
from neighboring or distant counties. The 
water areas of the country will have to be de- 
limited, and vested in responsible public au- 
thorities—probably the County Councils. 


80 


THE DRINK QUESTION. 


Ir is one of the numerous paradoxes of 
English politics that the Question of the 
Drink Supply should be regarded as the 
special concern of the only persons who, 
having solved it completely for themselves, 
might reasonably be supposed to have least to 
do with it: namely, the Teetotalers. And 
they handle it ineffectively because they do 
not realize that compulsory teetotalism is as 
fantastically outside practical politics as com- 
pulsory vegetarianism, or compulsory church- 
going, both of which practices are very 
earnestly believed in by many earnest and 
worthy people. 

The Drink Question is the question of 
how best to supply drink to those who want 
to drink, without permitting drunkenness. 
There is no way of having this done auto- 
matically except by making the drinkseller 
bear the expenses of drunkenness as well as 
pocket the profits of keeping a drinkshop. 
At present the publican (usually only a 


THE DRINK QUESTION 81 


brewer’s agent) takes the profits, whilst the 
ratepayer bears the loss, definitely in police 
rates and hospital rates, and indefinitely and 
incaleulably in the inefficiency and irregularity 
of drink-demoralized labor. If the rate-payer 
kept the drinkshop, he would not make a 
customer drink enough to cost the rates ten 
shillings for the sake of making sixpence profit 
on the liquor account. The self-acting reform, 
then, is Municipalization of the Liquor Trade. 


Tue Pustic Hovss. 


The public house question is a separate 
question. A great deal of the opposition en- 
countered by the teetotalers is raised in 
defence, not of drink, but of the public house 
as a social institution which has its communal 
value in spite of its admittedly mischievous 
exploitation by the brewer and distiller. To 
many teetotalers it never seems to have oc- 
curred that sociability is so highly important 
a virtue that it is a point of honor with the 
moneyed classes to exercise it in the most 
extravagant fashion; so much so that it is 
quite safe to say that most families in fashion- 


—_ 


82 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


able and would-be fashionable circles spend 
more on it than they ought. And a great part 
of this expenditure is for intoxicating liquor. 
Now it is very hard to persuade people that 
one Englishman is like another. The man 
whose income is sixpence a minute will not 
be persuaded that the man whose income is 
sixpence an hour is very like himself, and 
depends for his social position on a cheap 
social machinery of treats at public houses as 
much as a millionaire does on a dear social 
machinery of dinner and shooting parties. 
And just as a legislative attack on the dinner 
parties would be unanimously resisted by the 
world of fashion without the least thought of 
the drink question, so an attempt to suppress 
public houses will be resisted by the huge 
class which has no other organ of sociability, 
quite apart from its opinion of temperance as 
a rule of conduct. 

An adequate supply of public houses is 
therefore a necessity of the situation. The 
fact that the brewer, through his agent the 
publican, exploits the public house as a drink- 
shop, and multiplies it beyond all reason, is 
not an argument for abolishing the public 


THE DRINK QUESTION 83 


house, but for municipalizing it, thus changing 
it from the drinkshop of a private speculator 
into a really public house managed by a real 
publican. Our present private-publicans dis- 
regard the law against serving persons who 
have already had as much as is good for 
them; and they would encourage drinking 
if that were necessary. It is unfortunately 
so far from being necessary that the publican, 
when he remonstrates with a drunkard at all, 
does so with the object of saving him from 
ruin and making him drink with greater 
sobriety, regularity, and (consequently) per- 
manence. But in crowded districts the pub- 
lican has no time for preaching; and the 
mere fact that at every corner we find a shop 
in which drink is supplied on demand, without 
any question of encouragement or discourage- 
ment, leads to intolerable evils. That is why 
the agitation for reform has overshot its mark 
and become an agitation for the total sup- 
pression of liquor trade and public house 
indiscriminately. For Local Option, though 
nominally stopping short of prohibition, means 
prohibition wherever the teetotalers have a 
majority. Here there is some excuse for the 
G 


—_ 


84 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


teetotalers themselves, because they believe 
that the nation would be better without in- 
toxicating liquors, and they do not realize 
that no legislation can force an unconvinced 
nation to abstain even if such legislation could 
get enacted. But it is neither good sense nor 
good electioneering in statesmen who are not 
themselves teetotalers to angle for the teetotal 
vote by offering a measure which, on the face 
of it, would fortify the private drink trade 
impregnably in the drunken districts for the 
sake of suppressing it in the sober ones. 


EDUCATION. 


Our educational machinery in England is in 
a notable mess. Some places have two or 
three public authorities spending rates and 
taxes on different sorts of schools, whilst others 
have none at all. In one town the clever boy 
or girl finds in the infant school the lowest 
rung of an unbroken ladder to the University ; 
whilst in the very next county there is no 
rescue for talented poverty from the shop or 
the plough. Some school districts are too 
small to maintain a decent primary school: 
others are large enough to run a University. 
The central organization is as chaotic as. the 
local. At least seven separate Cabinet Ministers 
have schools officially under their charge; and 
their several departments usually scorn to 
consult together. The result is that although 
we spend on education every year nearly 
twenty million pounds of public money of one 
sort or another, we get very little for it. In 
English education to-day, waste and want go 
hand in hand. 


86 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Into the details of this disheartening muddle, 
and the means by which it may be reduced to 
order, no reader of Imperial election literature 
would follow us at present.’ The subject, to 
the importance of which everyone pays lip- 
homage, is a positively repulsive one, because 
the nation does not believe in what it calls 
education, and consequently has no real in- 
terest in or patience with it. Probably not a 
single vote is at present turning upon. it, 
except in a hostile direction. Its cost is 
thoroughly grudged ; and if it were not that 
the breakdown of the apprenticeship system 
has made public technical instruction a ne- 
cessity ; that sectarian strife finds its battlefields 
in the School Board elections; and that the 
schoolhouse, no matter what is taught there, 
is clearly a safer place for city children than 
the gutter, it may reasonably be doubted 
whether the ratepayer would tolerate a twen- 
tieth part of the school rates he now submits 
to. The truth is that our standard education 
still means in England a social qualification 


1 Both are fully set forth in a Fabian Tract entitled 
“The Education Muddle and the Way Out,” now in the 
press. 


EDUCATION 87 


for the rank of gentleman. It is useless for 
any other purpose ; and the classical, mathe- 
matical, or philosophical knowledge which it 
is supposed to involve is, after all, notoriously 
not possessed by University graduates as a 
class. No wonder, then, that the Conserva- 
tive citizen objects to pay for educating the 
masses because education does not befit their 
rank; the Radical objects because it is useless, 
except as a mark of caste; and everybody 
objects because his particular views in religion 
and politics are not inculcated—nay, are 
perhaps even denounced—under the head of 
moral instruction. 

This state of things will continue, no matter 
how cleverly we reform our Education Depart- 
ment and our school authorities, until the 
instruction given in our schools becomes as 
obviously useful and helpful as food, clothing, 
and fresh air. At present, in certain favored 
districts, a poor boy who happens to be an apt 
scholar can, by means of our educational 
machinery, become a professor of University 
classics, University economics, University 
philosophy, and so forth. If every poor boy 
in the kingdom did the same, our system would 


-_ 


88 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


have attained its ideal. But the country would 
incidentally have been ruined for want of 
manual workers, organizers, distributors, and 
public officials. We obtain these from the 
ranks of the unscholarly, with the result that 
our workers are uneducated, and our scholars 
uninstructed and unbusinesslike. In short, 
we have no education properly so called: we 
have only technical instruction on the one 
hand, and scholarship on the other. Neither 
our men of action nor our scholars are educated 
in citizenship. We have no citizens: we have 
only amateur politicians, with just schooling 
enough to make them the dupes of journalists 
as ignorant as themselves. Now a genuine 
old-fashioned Empire, autocratically, oligar- 
chically, bureaucratically governed, can do 
without trained citizens ; but we are not such 
an Empire: we are constituted as a democratic 
Commonwealth in which the statesman is 
finally at the mercy of the voter, who as yet 
never dreams of describing himself, or expect- 
ing anybody else to describe him, as a citizen, 
but is quite naturally and properly 7 of 
as ‘“‘ the man in the street.”’ 

Let us consider how this situation bears on 


EDUCATION 89 


some of the proposals in these pages. We 
point out the need for a reformed Consular 
Service, and for a greater Indianization of our 
Eastern bureaucracy. But how are we to 
select our reformed consular staff, or our 
Indian officials ? We have no test but the test 
of an education which is no education. The 
competitive examinations by which we obtain 
our upper division civil servants would be as 
likely as not to exclude the sort of man who 
would be successful in organizing British trade 
inaforeign market. Bengalis prolific of young 
natives who can commit to memory a whole 
volume of Mr. Herbert Spencer’s Synthetic 
Philosophy with less effort than it costs an 
Englishman to learn the multiplication table ; 
and this very docility and avidity for ready- 
made ideas enables them to pass examinations 
as effectually as it unfits them for governing 
men and coping with emergencies. Yet we 
have no better means of estimating capacity 
than the educational test, applied by examiners 
who are its own products. It is only within 
the last.few years, and mainly on the initiative 
of men whose public conscience has been 
awakened by Socialism, that political science 


aA 


90 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


has at last obtamed official recognition as a 
subject of public education. A year ago, if a 
County Council, Vestry, or Municipal Corpora- 
tion wished to secure a clerk certificated by a 
University as properly instructed in statistics, 
taxation, and municipal constitutional law, 
it could not do so, nothing of the kind being 
available except the familiar University ex- 
amination in obsolete political economy treat- 
ises compiled by professors for professors 
without any reference to or knowledge of the 
problems of practical administration. The new 
London University has a Faculty of Political 
Science which at last supplies this need ; but 
it is only a fragment of our educational system, 
whereas it should be the most important part 
of it. The real educational problem which 
confronts our statesmen is not the struggle 
of the Church with the Nonconformists for 
the souls of our elementary scholars, but 
the establishment of quite new subjects and 
methods having for their object the tech- 
nical training of the public servants who will 
constitute the executive of the Empire, and 
the education in citizenship of those upon 
whose votes their authority will be based. 


EDUCATION 91 


Tue PREsS. 


How ignorant the electorate is at present 
may be judged by its newspapers, those written 
by gentlemen for gentlemen being in many 
respects the worst. And there is and can be 
no check on the Press at present, except the 
knowledge and good sense of its readers. Only 
the other day the London papers circulated an 
account of the massacre of the legations at 
Pekin, with British officers shooting their wives 
to save them from dishonor, and other melo- 
dramatic particulars. In consequence, the 
Dean and Chapter of St. Paul’s were with 
difficulty restrained from celebrating a funeral 
service for the supposed victims. The whole 
story, like the Pigott letters and the accounts 
of the heroic defence of the Jameson raiders at 
Krugersdorp, was a pure fabrication. A pri- 
vate person perpetrating such a hoax would be 
dealt with very severely. An Indian or Irish 
patriotic paper doing half as much harm by a 
criticism of the Government would be sup- 
pressed, and its editor imprisoned. To the 
London paper nothing can be done. It may be 
better to suffer the Freedom of the Press to be 


2 
_ 


92 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


abused than to destroy it by imposing even the 
commonest moral obligations on it by law. 
All the more urgent is the need for politically 
educating the man in the street sufficiently to 
compel editors to respect his intelligence. If 
the State does not educate the public, the 
public will not be able to educate the Press ; 
and the mutual reaction of an uneducated Press 
and an uneducated public is a force strong 
enough to dissolve an Empire. 7 


93 


THE MORAL OF IT ALL. 


Tue moral of it all is that what the British 
Empire wants most urgently in its govern- 
ment is not Conservatism, not Liberalism, 
not Imperialism, but brains and_ political 
science. Most of our Cabinet Ministers at: 
present are like captains of penny steamers 
put in command of a modern battleship. 
They have dropped even the pretence of 
competence, and bring forward dummy Bills 
containing a few perfunctory clauses, knowing 
that when the Bill goes into committee private 
members who have studied the subject, or 
who have been coached by the various interests 
concerned, will bring forward the necessary 
amendments and turn the dummy into a 
real Bill. This may be defended as an ultra- 
democratic method of legislating ; but it has 
two disadvantages: first, that the corrupt 
interests are just as energetic in trying to 
collar the Bill as the public interests, and have 
much better opportunities, the Cabinet being 


= 


94 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


incapable of distinguishing between them : 
second, that it reduces the Cabinet to the 
condition of the bottomless sedan chair. But 
for the honor and glory of the thing we 
might as well have no Cabinet at all. Our 
public men have no technique: they have 
been trained on bad Latin verse-making 
instead of on modern statesmanship. The 
Colonial Secretary, because he has graduated 
in municipal business, and understands from 
commercial experience how to get things done 
and to deal with practical men, easily over- 
rides his colleagues, though his international 
manners are so bad that not even the im- 
portance of maintaining cordial relations with 
so near a neighbor and valuable a friend 
as France restrained him from making that 
reckless and shocking speech at Leicester, 
which contrasts so painfully with the letter 
in which Admiral Seymour has shewn how 
England should behave in the persons of her 
public men. Yet he towers, in point of 
practical ability, over colleagues who have not 
even the humiliating excuse of stupidity for 
their inefficiency, the truth being that though 
they have talent enough as Members of Par- 


THE MORAL OF IT ALL 95 


liament go, they will not work at their job. 
In their departments, instead of being masters 
of their departmental subjects, with ideas as 
to the solutions of the problems confronting 
them, they are, as the Belgians disrespect- 
fully say of constitutional monarchs, mere 
‘india-rubber stamps,” impressing themselves 
at the end of documents placed before them 
by the permanent officials, or at most de- 
ciding, after much prompting, between two 
alternative official policies laid before them, 
the right policy being almost certainly one 
unsuspected by the officials, who, having 
never been outside their own offices, are as 
likely to solve the problem as a purblind mill- 
horse might be. 

The whole theory of our administration 
depends on the supply of political ideas and 
initiative from the Cabinet to the departments : 
without it, bureaucracy, becomes an obstruction 
to progress instead of its most powerful engine. 
When the ideas are forthcoming, we get govern- 
ment, whether we agree with the ideas or not; 
and that is why Mr. Chamberlain has governed 
the country from the Colonial Office, whilst 
Mr. Chaplin has allowed the Local Govern- 


96 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


ment Board to become a byword for jobbery,' 
and the laughing-stock of every Town Clerk 
in the country. It is not the War Office and 
the Colonial Office that are the failures of the 
present Government, but the Local Govern- 
ment Board and the Home Office; and the 
cause of it 1s not any personal corruption or 
stupidity or ill-will on the part of Mr. Chaplin 
and Sir Matthew White Ridley, but simply 
that they do not understand their work, and, 
having taken no pains to improve themselves 
in this respect, have been at the mercy of the 
manufacturers whose interest it is to slip off 
the yoke of the Home Secretary, and the com- 
pany promoters and building speculators to 
whom inefficient local government secures 
monopoly and large profits. Besides Mr. 
Chamberlain, the only Minister who has-stood 


* As the public have lately connected jobbery mainly 
with contracts, it had better be explained here that the 
precise accusation implied in the above sentence is that 
of giving away the appointments which are practically 
in the gift of the President of the L. G. B. as rewards 
for electioneering services to the Minister’s party in his 
own constituency. It is astonishing how few English 
gentlemen have sufficient public intelligence to under- 
stand that this is a grave political misdemeanor. 


THE MORAL OF IT ALL 97 


like a rock for his own policy is Mr. Walter 
Long, the Minister of Agriculture ; and that 
policy has been, not the energetic reorganiza- 
tion of agriculture exemplified for him by 
Denmark, by our own Colonies, and even by 
Mr. Horace Plunkett in Ireland, but—the 
muzzling of dogs! 

All through our bureaucratic system we are 
hampered by the separation of the secretarial 
from the executive officers : in India, between 
Simla and the man actually building the bridge 
or governing the province; in the Local 
Government Board, between the clerks at 
Whitehall and the masters of workhouses, 
Town Clerks, and Borough Surveyors ; in the 
Home Office, between the officials and the 
governors of prisons, inspectors of factories, 
etc.; in the Education Department, between 
the men who have never had an _ hour’s 
experience of teaching and the schoolmasters ; 
in the War Office and Admiralty, between 
the clerks, bound hand and foot with red tape, 
and the officers on service. The climax of 
all these separate sources of friction is the 
universal friction between the Treasury and 
every other human institution, official or 
otherwise. 


98 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


Whatever else the war may do or undo, it 
at least turns its fierce searchlights on official, 
administrative, and military perfunctoriness. 
Before the war, we were secretly proud of the 
frowns of Europe, because we thought we 
were hated for our superiority. Europe is 
now smiling, which is not quite so easy to 
bear. German officers give us good-natured 
hints about our cavalry and our formations. 
Russian diplomatists look forward with con- 
fidence to settling the Chinese question with a 
British High Commissioner of the calibre of 
the gentleman who at Bloemfontein explained 
the superiority of English institutions and the 
excellence of English intentions to President 
Kruger in the manner of a British governess 
talking to an Egyptian fellah. We have made 
military reputations for Cronje and De Wet, 
and left many of our own laurels on the field. 
The Government very greatly deceives itself 
if it believes that these things have filled the 
nation with a sense of glory. The brief days 
of window-breaking and hat-blocking, ex- 
hilarating to ourselves, but unspeakably ridi- 
culous to the European spectator, have passed ; 
and we are now asking ourselves, as a Govern- 


THE MORAL OF IT ALL 99 


ment journal has just rudely put it, ‘‘ Are we a 
Nation of Fools?” The reply is that we are 
probably not more foolish than other nations, 
but that we are intellectually much _ lazier. 
We cling to our aristocracy ; and our aris- 
tocracy is ready to die for its country, but not 
to live for it; to do any quantity of tedious 
duty under orders, but not to earn the right 
to be intrusted with that duty by learning 
and thinking about it. Politically we have 
no standard either of mtelligence or capacity: 
the responsibilities of the age of Great Powers 
have found us a nation of cricketers governed 
by a bench of golf players, ready to “‘ shift the 
enemy with the bayonet” (an obsolete weapon, 
our officers tell us), but not to shift the 
impersonal enemies of civilization with the 
providence of high statesmanship. 

A_ It may be that nothing will rouse us but 
some staggering calamity or some unbearable 
humiliation. Not until civil war was organized 
did we reform our Parliament in 1832. It 
took two cholera epidemics to force us into 
Public Health legislation, and a Crimean War 
to reform our Civil Service. Yet these reforms 
were as nothing compared with the reforms 

H 


a 


100 FABIANISM AND THE EMPIRE 


that lie before us—and immediately before us, 
if we are to hold our own in the modern 
international movement. 

Our purpose here, however, is not to call 
idly on the Government or the nation to 
‘‘make an effort.” We know well that the 
effort we desire can ‘only be. “made by men 
who have our ideas and our faith in our 
ideas. If we were Conservatives or ‘Liberals 
ourselves, we, too, should be lazy, cynical, 
indifferent, ignorant, sceptical as to the value 
of measures which would be to us aimless. 
By placing c our * ideas at the disposal of the 
by enlarging the N ottingham Program to the 
Newcastle one, we only precipitated its present 
ruin. We frankly say now that the Conserva- 
_ tive Party 1 will fall into the same confusion by 
meddling with the measures we propose, and 
trying to unsocialize them by throwing the 
“on the whole community, as it has already 
thrown the cost of national insurancé ‘against 
accidents on the employers. a The confusion 
will last until conscious Socialism creates_a 
party with a purpose and a faith ; and then 
Enghsh ‘statesmen will once more have a craft 


wg nm RR 


THE MORAL OF IT ALL 101 


and master it. We have never affected a 
~~humble éstimate ds to the future of Socialism 
in England. Long before Mr. John Morley 
made the bicotem. we said plainly enough 
that when the exhaustion of Liberal ideas 
led to the disappearance of Liberal leadership 
(which is precisely what_has._now happened), 
Liberalism would be supplanted in its repre- 
sentation of progressive ideas by Socialism. 
You must either follow the Socialists,” says 
Mr. Morley, in effect, “or follow me; and 
I have no particular destination to lead you 
to.” Mr. Chamberlain, still brisk enough to 
start out on the chance of turning up some- 
where, has already compelled the Conservatives 
to follow him by forcing the same alternative 
on them. He, too, will presently find that there 
is. only one way forward. That way is our 
Way: the way of International Socialism. We 
are quite aware that our countrymen will not 
believe us. We can only say that as soon as 
they find an alternative we shall be ready 
to discuss it: meanwhile, Nature abhors a 
vacuum, and will fill it with Socialism because 
nothing else is available. 


THE END. 


CHISWICK PRESS: CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO. 
TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON. 


*:, 


fiom, 


lan Kni 
138 s-, S&ond-hand's's (Books) 


oO. 
Leonards Road, Londen git ’ 
d 


ey 


cy SION. 


~ 


Three Books by George Bernard Shaw 


_ 


PILAYS PLEASANT & UNPLEASANT. 


“~ With Portrait in Photogravure. Two volumes. Crown 





8vo, cloth, 6s. each. | Second edition. 

t. wen. “1, “Yi ageing « Candida, i ee a 
time with bursts of uncontrollable laughter 

WLOOWERS’ HOUSES. not unmingled with tears, The thing is as 


TILE PHILANDERER: A | true a poem as ever was written ia prose, 


ar or, n and my whole soul went out in admiration 
* Topvicat CoMEDY. / and gratitude to the man who had created 
«MRS. WARREN’S PROFES- | it. . ..._‘ Candida’ is a work of rare | 

c genius."—MR. WiLLIAM ARCHER In Zhe 


4 Daily Chronicle. 


» * ‘“Mr. Bernard Shaw is one of the 
4 Vol. Il. cleverest preachers of the day, poner 
‘UMS AND THE MAN: A his seriousness under a mask of fun, an 


A disguising the true character of his mission 
vOMEDY. in the garb of dramatic critic and play- 
NDIDA: A MYSTERY. wright. As he combines a firm purpose 
c with an inexhaustible faculty for amusing 


.E MAN OF DESTINY: A | his readers, he is certain to succeed ; in- 


h 


fRIFLE. ae, ie has alregy ae an etapa 
. ' meed of success. e seven plays which 
1U CAN NEVER TELL: A | he now publishes are all worth reading. ’>- 
¢ JOMEDY. : Morning Fost. 


=i 





“| ; im Se ' d 3 

“HE PERFECT WAGNERITE: A Com- 

‘mentary on the Niblung’s Ring. Crown 8vo, 
cloth, 3s. 6a. 


‘* Wagnerians will welcome it as.a- clear and suggestive exposition of theories which 
thy had themselves vaguely perceived, but had been too impatient or too careless to 
work out.”—Daily Chronicle. 

‘The author's remarks on the music are of exceeding value and interest, We may 
not.always agree with them, but as regards the,work itself, Wagner's methods in general 
azid the composition of other men, Mr. Shaw is at his best, and most brilliant.”— Zimes. 





‘SHREEB PLAYS FOR’ PURITANS. 


_ +» Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. [La preparation. 


-¥ 





Pim | THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE. | 

CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA. : 
CAPTAIN BRASSBOUND’S CONVERSION. 

a LONDON: GRANT RICHARDS, 9, Henrietta Street, 

} | 


=) * Covent Garden, W.C. 


4 
< 


= 


at 


meg 
\ 


33 ae 


\ . 





