
























AAS SAA . . 


r e " - ‘* . 7. . al atate an, % § Cy : 
Ve 7 5 ey es ATA ae serait ti . 

















2 SUN SE LO 
" , ' =~ sae StS SS 5 2S ~ 
’y iw a) Ls .. Tiel eah 
, P ee A ee Sinn 
j ° : ria . . ae 
- - er S q a 
q on eam 3 
a sta s a) “ AS _ 
, n a >» —- > > 
‘ ' . ‘ "tet ~ % Be ae: 
, . eet ’ ‘\ - Td ee ee 
% . vu ate ae os ~L i. . Ve " 6 >! . 
+ . f q _ aa, VSS aia. ~ are ad 
1 ‘ ' ‘A. A ee Vaan | a 
OD ‘ ” . x a a eek >a 7. . 
a A , ras ran , An ie a 3S A, ) at vi . Ape ee is re 
te MeN ANE CRIES Seay ver hry Seer hy uety Wad byt 
‘ = " . f oY f ye eee a a a ea i y " x v3 
" r i. ~~) + tome Oe “ * Pan te a UTD « 
ter ee Ee ‘ Y + ‘ ei ty ‘y . ASRS hy Sets, 
. —— ' = - --- . be PU Ua A ee » ’ 
r oe " ae "yy vw Sh . “AVL a >. sik wees i 
J oD > ee - 
“hy ‘ \ A OL ie 
= - 7 7a" is a 
" S see . ote ee 
- ® . ‘ < 1 ’ 1a» ay ek 
‘ ‘he i (ay ANS “a ’ 
. ea on) oko ey ath os oe 
‘ . . : \ aI ‘ \ ." 4, : oa > ~- = \ = “1 rs ay M v 4 >, ; ‘ a . E . : 
. Aas” ; ae . s . he s ead ch . o i ; wae _ 
. ‘ p ~f 7 . oo ' 0 Ae an Aaa et ee ed te a Say ae | 
_, — Ci * “ 1" ae iw << + | O or ots Sn se ie ee 
i * - eek a) eae ew) Oy \ bad Nag gl M ats Sah “ oS) ye ae: 
gt * . x: A - “ A) MSs a ». 4 Te oh =) ee eS , a s 
U set es ‘ . 3aVvi yy . ) s Pe 
f ’ Pee “s eA oe ev saa \s cae x o~ 
ry ; "os ere << 4 . a on Oe <i ee vs a AU. AS ant hy ; 
"4 ; ic i de ‘ \ oe ‘Ga A ia at ue ce ERECT “1 ts \' . a { 
: Pe es Pe tee SPN ee ean - ee RAS . Nhe 
d ‘ ‘ 4 “~ * , > - | 
: ; - ' 7 +a t _ is s Te ' ‘ aL % Ly ol owt a fe oe > | 7 7 
A MW , ce ay eae | LASS ry r ‘ OA 
\ - 5 ; ~ ; hy ees aA TA! 
a“ " ry Pe rn ra? - he uc on os oe ye a 
he a4 Ce. =| ah ae "eC > we ss > ta Be etee ans: 
\ . aoe e asd > sb >t . } . r 
, f cae L a ARP 8 a eA Ls > Poa tee Ps ht) =f EN 
' ‘ awe a ot: ~ ae cea nS SN 
* ' L ’ yy “ “ 
. a . ~ . 
vy bs ' er ‘ w 7 
» et,” ae ry 
: y Mt : S35 
x Ta ~ ae . s “.y aa. hay 
My ROP AP A CA Aah SAGVtS ay Y a Ny 
° Y ae = ee | -A 9" 2-2 ae ESSENSE en oceete er i ae 4 * 
i. U wee , 4 +» " ne <6 ? Se ‘i 
! roth FE ASR ONTN CSS ANE TAPES SS FSS NERS 4 
‘ ; ae I A ee eee eee ee a a TANS he 
ce , ' , “ Pi ea ue S \s ae te . i : pa en NNT at 


“! . . . y : 
’ ' 4 " : i oh SVE AS hs s 7 ‘ ‘ uss eo ety . 
s _ r . ** 7 * i ~ b . >. *’ m A" * Ate i‘ » ; SS its = 
: " z . “ . os eh oe r s ae ; 
, - f 











































ae P a WN SAP a Cea 
, al a. 
a tes ; aL ik ah mee SSI ie 
= 7 hak eS Ar SUS eos . 
- 7 eek OAS eee ~ a 
= : Prateek Pt CA Oe ENT ec ORL eee NS 
» . ; 7 A tl WN “Sy oo 7 Se ai ~y on 
- <. “ am Te me , = . p os . ¥ 
. me) U ‘ . re eo) Ls x a) aes wy 
, ie tu wr TEN NN KR ¥ 
S ee : soe ie ae Ae 8 ES on 
- ‘ o ‘ - 
H " “4 ‘ i, BY 
Oh es bak wre eis RES 
A 7 "y SAO Sik ehh a oa Bi a 
‘ - ‘ 7 : aS ‘ SS Si Wh rn a TT Ste ty ete ’ 
; | x ‘ cv a S es q irons ' eo Ke ~~ hy ihe ~ : ab oe re . 
’ 4 Eyre a Wy MA ‘ a. eas se . Sa oN BN a Pele ™_ : 
' ‘ ‘ | 
‘ ' ' ' 
] a 7 
‘ r 7 Jnl} “ ry 
: ¥ Gk 
. b , es BNF Su: 
af w . 7 
. ' Ss ~ ’ 7 
‘ - <a) eal a ~ " : a | 
’ . A) Jt 7 a -! Pt yy ." 
J ~ “J We ., . J 
r : on) we oh * 4a es 
- ~ 1 o -, - A 
- Re che PRE et, 
‘ ” 7 < . . 


. ss ow 
ss ae ew 


' a | . : A ee. - a we ae Semen: * ah ae 2 


ma ‘ " . os ore ne Lr i “sh 





. ante = = 8 Se aunty AS 
2 sy Ce x Ry AL Rah ha coe 


Su ! ye V5 * 














te “ une eed 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2008 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/misalliancedarkl0Oshawiala 











MISALLIANCE 
THE DARK LADY OF THE SONNETS 
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY 


Works of Bernard Shaw 


Dramatic Opinions and Essays. 2vols. . .. . Net, $2.50 
Plays Pleasant and Unpleasant. 2 vols... . . Net, $2.50 
John Bull’s Other Island and Major Barbara . . Net, $1.50 
Man and Superman Net, $1.25 
Three Plays for Puritans Net, $1.25 


The Doctor’s Dilemma, Getting Married, and The 
Shewing-Up of Blanco Posnet 


The Quintessence of Ibsenism 
Cashel Byron’s Profession 

An Unsocial Socialist 

The Irrational Knot 

The Author’s Apology 

The Perfect Wagnerite 

Love Among the Artists 

The Admirable Bashville: A Play 


Postage or Express, Extra. 


BRENTANO’S 
FIFTH AVENUE AND 27th STREET, NEW YORK 





MISALLIANCE, THE DARK 
LADY OF THE SONNETS, AND 
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY -: WITH 
A TREATISE ON PARENTS AND 
CHILDREN -: BY BERNARD 
SHAW 


BRENTANO’S: NEW YORK 
MCMXIV 


Copyright, 1914, by G. Bernard Shaw 


THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE PAGE 
Misalliance . ......2.2.2.2. 8 
Parents and Children... .... . 1X 
Trailing Clouds of Glory . . a ix 
The Child is Father to the Man ae xl 
What isa Child? . . . aor X1V 
The Sin of Nadab and Anika Aone XVi 
The Manufacture of Monsters . . . xvii 
Small and Large Families . . . . . XIX 
Children as Nuisances ....... xX 
Child Fanciers Sighs. ae ORRIV 
Childhood as a Site of Sin erate el 
School . . Pe a eV 
My Scholastic Meare cntse eee KI 
Schoolmasters of Genius. XXXIl 
What We Do Not Teach, and Why . XXXV 
Taboo in Schools. . . XXXVI1 
Alleged Novelties in Modern Séhoals XXX1X 
What is to be Done? .. . oe xli 
Children’s Rights and Duties. ee xii 
Should Children Earn their Living? xiii 
Children’s Happiness . . ae oxlhy 
The Horror of the Perpetual Holiday xlv 
University Schoolboyishness . . . . xlvil 
The New Laziness . . oe «SAVIN 
The Infinite School Task ioe xlix 


The Rewards and Risks of Know Neilee hi 
English Physical Hardihood and 


Spiritual Cowardice . ]hii 
The Risks of Ignorance and Weakness liv 
Vv 

ont aw A oe gS ™ 


§.> 


v1 


Contents 


The Common Sense of Toleration . lv 
The Sin of Athanasius .. . a lvi 
The Experiment Ex perimentinel oe Ix 
Why We Loathe es and Love 
SpOR « 40g os : « Ixii 
Antichrist . . .. 2: «>. . eee, 
Under the Whip . ..... 2 Ixv 
Technical Instruction. . ..... ~~ Ixix 
Docility and Dependence .... . Ixx 
The Abuse of Docility . . . . . . xxi 
The Schoolboy and the Homeboy .__Ixxiv 
The Comings of Age of Children . . Ixxvi 
The Conflict of Wills . . . . . . . Ixxvii 
The Demagogue’s Opportunity . . Ixxix 
Our Quarrelsomeness . . . me bog 
We Must Reform Society before we 
ean Reform Ourselves... . . Ixxxi 
The Pursuit of Manners. . Meebo ahi 
Not too much Wind on the Heath 
Brother. >; SeEX XIV 
Wanted: a Child’s Magna Charta . Ixxxvi 
The Pursuit of Learning... . . Ixxxvi 
Children and Game: a Proposal . Ixxxvili 
The Parents’ Intolerable Burden . . Ixxxix 
Whobiliza tron: . s--.. 2.2, 4.2 ae xel 
Children’s Rights and _ Parents’ 
Wrongs... .  xcll 
How Little We iow Shout Our 
Parents . . oe XCV 
Our Abandonad: Mothers kw oe 
Family Affection .. ee ow eR 
The Fate of the Family hatin coe cl 
Pannly Mourning: * 242.4 4 aos < & eli 
Art Teaching. . clVv 


The yee of Secular Educa- 
HOR) tec 2P ee i oleaier Cage clx 


PAGE 


Contents Vil 


PAGE PAGHB 
Natural Selection as a Religion . . CXl 
Moral Instruction Leagues ... .  exil 
Mmeisible 2 2. 6 kk kk ee | ORV 
Aruistidolatry. ......... ¢Cxvil 
“The Machine” . . ia» 3eMik 
The Provocation to Anarchism a cxx 
Imagination . . Bet ie OX RAT 
Government by Bullies Poa ah ee a ORT 
The Dark Lady of the Sonnets .. . . 109 
Preface . . . 109 

How the Play ¢ came to be Written . 109 
Momas Lyler .......: +... 110 
Frank Harris. . >» ATS 
Harris “‘durch Mitleid foicsend oh tS 
*‘Sidney’s Sister: Pembroke’s 

Mother” .. See obhG. 
Shakespear’s Social Standing: 5 ee eS 
minssside Idolatry .......- = 120 
Shakespear’s Pessimism . . . . . . 122 
Gaiety of Genius. . ....... 1238 
Jupiter and Semele . . Rats eee 0 
The Idol of the Bardolaters fea ts 129 
Shakespear’s alleged me ees aud 

Perversion .. . 132 
Shakespear and Democracy tio, ESE 


Shakespear and the British Public - aloT 


onvessirst Play. ........ . 159 
Were ee Se ce ce ee ace, TOD 








PARENTS AND CHILDREN 


Mifailine Clouds of Glory 


CHILDHOOD is a stage in the process of that continual re- 
manufacture of the Life Stuff by which the human race is 
perpetuated. The Life Force either will not or cannot 
achieve immortality except in very low organisms: in- 
deed it is by no means ascertained that even the amoeba 
is immortal. Human beings visibly wear out, though 
they last longer than their friends the dogs. Turtles, 
parrots, and elephants are believed to be capable of out- 
living the memory of the oldest human inhabitant. But 
the fact that new ones are born conclusively proves that 
they are not immortal. Do away with death and you do 
away with the need for birth: in fact if you went on 
breeding, you would finally have to kill old people to make 
room for young ones. 

Now death is not necessarily a failure of energy on the 
part of the Life Force. People with no imagination try to 
make things which will last for ever, and even want to 
live for ever themselves. But the intelligently imagina- 
tive man knows very well that it is waste of labor to make 
a machine that will last ten years, because it will probably 
be superseded in half that time by an improved machine 
answering the same purpose. He also knows that if some 
devil were to convince us that our dream of personal im- 
mortality is no dream but a hard fact, such a shriek of 
despair would go up from the human race as no other 
conceivable horror could provoke. With all our perverse 
nonsense as to John Smith living for a thousand million 
eons aud for ever after, we die voluntarily, knowing that 

ix 


x Parents and Children 


it is time for us to be scrapped, to be remanufactured, to 
come back, as Wordsworth divined, trailing ever bright- 
ening clouds of glory. We must all be born again, and 
yet again and again. We should like to live a little longer 
just as we should like £50: that is, we should take it if 
we could get it for nothing; but that sort of idle liking is 
not will. It is amazing—considering the way we talk— 
how little a man will do to get £50: all the £50 notcs I 
have ever known of have been more easily earned than a 
laborious sixpence; but the difficulty of inducing a man 
to make any serious effort to obtain £50 is nothing to the 
difficulty of inducing him to make a serious effort to 
keep alive. The moment he sees death approach, he gets 
into bed and sends for a doctor. He knows very well at 
the back of his conscience that he is rather a poor job 
and had better be remanufactured. He knows that his 
death will make room for a birth; and he hopes that it 
will be a birth of something that he aspired to be and fell 
short of. He knows that it is through death and rebirth 
that this corruptible shall become incorruptible, and this 
mortal put on immortality. Practise as you will on his 
ignorance, his fears, and his imagination, with bribes of 
paradises and threats of hells, there is only one belief 
that can rob death of its sting and the grave of its victory; 
and that is the belief that we can lay down the burden 
of our wretched little makeshift individualities for ever 
at each lift towards the goal of evolution, which can only 
be a being that cannot be improved upon. After all, 
what man is capable of the insane self-conceit of believing 
that an eternity of himself would be tolerable even to him- 
self? Those who try to believe it postulate that they shall 
be made perfect first. But if you make me perfect I 
shall no longer be myself, nor will it be possible for me to 
conceive my present imperfections (and what I cannot 
conceive I cannot remember); so that you may just as 
well give me a new name and face the fact that I am a 


Parents and Children Xl 


new person and that the old Bernard Shaw is as dead as 
mutton. Thus, oddly enough, the conventional belief in 
the matter comes to this: that if you wish to live for ever 
you must be wicked enough to be irretrievably damned, 
sinee the saved are no longer what they were, and in hell 
alone do people retain their sinful nature: that is to say, 
their individuality. And this sort of hell, however con- 
venient as a means of intimidating persons who have prac- 
tieally no honor and no conscience, is not a faet. Death 
is for many of us the gate of hell; but we are inside on 
the way out, not outside on the way in. Therefore let 
us give up telling one another idle stories, and rejoice in 
death as we rejoice in birth; for without death we cannot 
be born again; and the man who does not wish to be born 
again and born better is fit only to represent the City of 
London in Parliament, or perhaps the university of Oxford. 


The Child is Father to the Man 


Is he? Then in the name of common sense why do we 
always treat children on the assumption that the man is 
father to the child? Oh, these fathers! And we are not 
content with fathers: we must have godfathers, forgetting 
that the child is godfather to the man. Has it ever 
struck you as curious that in a country where the first 
article of belief is that every child is born with a godfather 
whom we all call ‘“‘our father which art in heaven,” two 
very limited individual mortals should be allowed to ap- 
pear at its baptism and explain that they are its godpar- 
ents, and that they will look after its salvation until it 
is no longer a child. I had a godmother who made herself 
responsible in this way for me. She presented me with a 
Bible with a gilt clasp and edges, larger than the Bibles 
similarly presented to my sisters, because my sex entitled 
me to a heavier article. I must have seen that lady at 
least four times in the twenty years following. She never 


xii Parents and Children 


alluded to my salvation in any way. People occasionally 
ask me to act as godfather to their children with a levity 
which convinces me that they have not the faintest notion 
_that it involves anything more than calling the helpless 
' child George Bernard without regard to the possibility that 
it may grow up in the liveliest abhorrence of my notions. 
A person with a turn for logic might argue that if God 
‘is the Father of all men, and if the child is father to the 
man, it follows that the true representative of God at the 
christening is the child itself. But such posers are un- 
popular, because they imply that our little customs, or, 
as we often call them, our religion, mean something, or 
must originally have meant something, and that we under- 
stand and believe that something. 

However, my business is not to make confusion worse 
confounded, but to clear it up. Only, it is as well to begin 
by a sample of current thought and practice which shews 
that on the subject of children we are very deeply con- 
fused. On the whole, whatever our theory or no theory 
may be, our practice is to treat the child as the property 
of its immediate physical parents, and to allow them to 
do what they like with it as far as it will let them. It 
has no rights and no liberties: in short, its condition is 
that which adults recognize as the most miserable and 
dangerous politically possible for themselves: namely, the 
condition of slavery. For its alleviation we trust to the 
natural affection of the parties, and to public opinion. 
A father cannot for his own credit let his son go in rags. 
Also, in a very large section of the population, parents 
finally become dependent on their children. Thus there 
are checks on child slavery which do not exist, or are less 
powerful, in the case of manual and industrial slavery. 
Sensationally bad cases fall into two classes, which are 
really the same class: namely, the children whose parents 
are excessively addicted to the sensual luxury of petting 
children, and the children whose parents are excessively 


Parents and Children — Xili 


addicted to the sensual luxury of physically torturing 
them. There is a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty 
to Children which has effectually made an end of our be- 
lief that mothers are any more to be trusted than step- 
mothers, or fathers than slave-drivers. And there is a 
growing body of law designed to prevent parents from 
using their children ruthlessly to make money for the 
household. Such legislation has always been furiously 
resisted by the parents, even when the horrors of factory 
slavery were at their worst; and the extension of such 
legislation at present would be impossible if it were not 
that the parents affected by it cannot control a majority 
of votes in Parliament. In domestic life a great deal of 
service is done by children, the girls acting as nursemaids 
and general servants, and the lads as errand boys. In 
the country both boys and girls do a substantial share of 
farm labor. This is why it is necessary to coerce poor 
parents to send their children to school, though in the 
relatively small class which keeps plenty of servants it is 
impossible to induce parents to keep their children at 
home instead of paying schoolmasters to take them off 
their hands. 

It appears then that the bond of affection between 
parents and children does not save children from the slav- 
ery that denial of rights involves in adult political rela- 
tions. It sometimes intensifies it, sometimes mitigates 
it; but on the whole children and parents confront one 
another as two classes in which all the political power is 
on one side; and the results are not at all unlike what 
they would be if there were no immediate consanguinity 
between them, and one were white and the other black, 
or one enfranchised and the other disenfranchised, or one 
ranked as gentle and the other simple. Not that Nature 
counts for nothing in the case and political rights for every- 
thing. But a denial of political rights, and the resultant 
delivery of one class into the mastery of another, affects 


X1V Parents and Children — 


their relations so extensively and profoundly that it is 
impossible to ascertain what the real natural relations of 
the two classes are until this political relation is abolished. 


What is a Child? 


An experiment. A fresh attempt to produce the just 
man made perfect: that is, to make humanity divine. 
And you will vitiate the experiment if you make the slight- 
est attempt to abort it into some fancy figure of your own: 
for example, your notion of a good man or a womanly 
woman. If you treat it as a little wild beast to be tamed, 
"or as a pet to be played with, or even as a means to save 
‘you trouble and to make money for you (and these are 
our commonest ways), it may fight its way through in 
spite of you and save its soul alive; for all its instincts will 
resist you, and possibly be strengthened in the resistance; 
but if you begin with its own holiest aspirations, and suborn 
them for your own purposes, then there is hardly any limit 
to the mischief you may do. Swear at a child, throw your 
boots at it, send it flying from the room with a cuff or a 
* kick; and the experience will be as instructive to the child 
as a difficulty with a short-tempered dog ora bull. Francis 
_ Place tells us that his father always struck his children 
when he found one within his reach. The effect on the 
young Places seems to have been simply to make them 
- keep out of their father’s way, which was no doubt what 
he desired, as far as he desired anything at all. Francis 
records the habit without bitterness, having reason to 
thank his stars that his father respected the inside of his 
head whilst cuffing the outside of it; and this made it 
easy for Francis to do yeoman’s service to his country as 
that rare and admirable thing, a Freethinker: the only 
sort of thinker, I may remark, whose thoughts, and con- 
sequently whose religious convictions, command any 
respect. 


Parents and Children XV 


Now Mr Place, senior, would be described by many as 
a bad father; and I do not contend that he was a con- 
spicuously good one. But as compared with the conven- 
tional good father who deliberately imposes himself on 
his son as a god; who takes advantage of childish credulity 
and parent worship to persuade his son that what he ap- 
proves of is right and what he disapproves of is wrong; 
who imposes a corresponding conduct on the child by a 
system of prohibitions and penalties, rewards and eulogies, 
for which he claims divine sanction: compared to this sort 
of abortionist and monster maker, I say, Place appears 
almost as a Providence. Not that it is possible to live 
with children any more than with grown-up people with- 
out imposing rules of conduct on them. There is a point 
at which every person with human nerves has to say to a 
child “Stop that noise.” But suppose the child asks why! 
There are various answers in use. The simplest: “‘ Because 
it irritates me,’’ may fail; for it may strike the child as 
being rather amusing to irritate you; also the child, hav- 
ing comparatively no nerves, may be unable to conceive 
your meaning vividly enough. In any case it may want 
to make a noise more than to spare your feelings. You 
may therefore have to explain that the effeet of the irri- 
tation will be that you will do something unpleasant if 
the noise continues. The something unpleasant may be 
only a look of suffering to rouse the child’s affectionate 
sympathy (if it has any), or it may run to forcible expul- 
sion from the room with plenty of unnecessary violence; 
but the principle is the same: there are no false pretences 
involved: the child learns in a straightforward way that 
it does not pay to be inconsiderate. Also, perhaps, that 
Mamma, who made the child learn the Sermon on the 
Mount, is not really a Christian. 


XVI Parents and Children 


The Sin of Nadab and Abihu 


But there is another sort of answer in wide use which 
is neither straightforward, instructive, nor harmless. In 
its simplest form it substitutes for “Stop that noise,”’ 
“Dont be naughty,’ which means that the child, instead 
of annoying you by a perfectly healthy and natural in- 
fantile procedure, is offending God. This is a blasphemous 
lie; and the fact that it is on the lips of every nurserymaid 
does not excuse it in the least. Dickens tells us of a nurs- 
erymaid who elaborated it into ““If you do that, angels 
wont never love you.’ I remember a servant who used 
to tell me that if I were not good, by which she meant if 
I did not behave with a single eye to her personal conven- 
ience, the cock would come down the chimney. Less 
imaginative but equally dishonest people told me I should 
go to hell if I did not make myself agreeable to them. 
Bodily violence, provided it be the hasty expression of 
normal provoked resentment and not vicious cruelty, 
cannot harm a child as this sort of pious fraud harms it. 
There is a legal limit to physical cruelty; and there are 
also human limits to it. There is an active Society which 
brings to book a good many parents who starve and tor- 
ture and overwork their children, and intimidates a good 
many more. When parents of this type are caught, they 
are treated as criminals; and not infrequently the police 
have some trouble to save them from being lynched. 
The people against whom children are wholly unprotected 
are those who devote themselves to the very mischievous 
and cruel sort of abortion which is called bringing up a 
child in the way it should go. Now nobody knows the 
way a child should go. All the ways discovered so far 
lead to the horrors of our existing civilizations, described 
quite justifiably by Ruskin as heaps of agonizing human 
maggots, struggling with one another for scraps of food. 
Pious fraud is an attempt to pervert that precious and 


Parents and Children XV11 


sacred thing the child’s conscience into an instrument of 
our own convenience, and to use that wonderful and ter- 
rible power called Shame to grind our own axe. It is the 
sin of stealing fire from the altar: a sin so impudently 
practised by popes, parents, and pedagogues, that one can 
hardly expect the nurserymaids to see any harm in steal- 
ing a few cinders when they are worrited. 

Into the blackest depths of this violation of children’s 
souls one can hardly bear to look; for here we find pious 
fraud masking the violation of the body by obscene cruelty. 
Any parent or school teacher who takes a secret and abom- 
inable delight in torture is allowed to lay traps into which 
every child must fall, and then beat it to his or her heart’s 
content. A gentleman once wrote to me and said, with 
an obvious conviction that he was beng most reasonable 
and high minded, that the only thing he beat his children 
for was failure in perfect obedience and perfect truthful- 
ness. On these attributes, he said, he must insist. As 
one of them is not a virtue at all, and the other is the attri- 
bute of a god, one can imagine what the lives of this gen- 
tleman’s children would have been if it had been possible 
for him to live down to his monstrous and foolish preten- 
sions. And yet he might have written his letter to The 
Times (he very nearly did, by the way) without incurring 
any danger of being removed to an asylum, or even losing 
his reputation for taking a very proper view of his parental 
duties. And at least it was not a trivial view, nor an ill 
meant one. It was munch more respectable than the gen- 
eral consensus of opinion that if a school teacher can de- 
vise a question a child cannot answer, or overhear it 
calling omega omeega, he or she may beat the child vi- 
ciously. Only, the cruelty must be whitewashed by a 
moral excuse, and a pretence of reluctance. It must be 
for the child’s good. The assailant must say “‘ This hurts 
me more than it hurts you.” There must be hypocrisy 
as well as cruelty. The injury to the child would be far 


XV Parents and Children 


less if the voluptuary said frankly “‘I beat you because I 
like beating you; and I shall do it whenever I can contrive 
an excuse for it.”” But to represent this detestable lust 
to the child as Divine wrath, and the cruelty as the benef- 
icent act of God, which is exactly what all our floggers 
do, is to add to the torture of the body, out of which the 
flogger at least gets some pleasure, the maiming and 
blinding of the child’s soul, which can bring nothing but 
horror to anyone. 


The Manufacture of Monsters 


This industry is by no means peculiar to China. The 
Chinese (they say) make physical monsters. We revile 
them for it and proceed to make moral monsters of our 
own children. The most excusable parents are those who 
try to correct their own faults in their offspring. The 
parent who says to his child: ““[ am one of the successes 
of the Almighty: therefore imitate me in every particular 
or I will have the skin off your back” (a quite common 
attitude) is a much more absurd figure than the man who, 
with a pipe in his mouth, thrashes his boy for smoking. 
If you must hold yourself up to your children as an object 
lesson (which is not at all necessary), hold yourself up as 
a warning and not as an example. But you had much 
better let the child’s character alone. If you once allow 
yourself to regard a child as so much material for you to 
manufacture into any shape that happens to suit your 
fancy you are defeating the experiment of the Life Force. 
You are assuming that the child does not know its own 
business, and that you do. In this you are sure to be 
wrong: the child feels the drive of the Life Force (often 
called the Will of God); and you cannot feel it for him. 
Handel’s parents no doubt thought they knew better than 
their child when they tried to prevent his becoming a mu- 
sician. They would have been cqually wrong and equally 


Parents and Children X1X 


unsuccessful if they had tried to prevent the child beeom- 
ing a great raseal had its genius lain in that direction. 
Handel would have been Handel, and Napoleon and Peter 
of Russia themselves in spite of all the parents in creation, 
beeause, as often happens, they were stronger than their 
parents. But this does not happen always. Most chil- 
dren ean be, and many are, hopelessly warped and wasted 
by parents who are ignorant and silly enough to suppose 
that they know what a human being ought to be, and who 
stick at nothing in their determination to force their chil- 
dren into their moulds. Every child has a right to its 
own bent. It has a right to be a Plymouth Brother 
though its parents be convineed atheists. It has a right 
to dislike its mother or father or sister or brother or 
uncle or aunt if they are antipathetic to it. It has a 
right to find its own way and go its own way, whether 
that way seems wise or foolish to others, exactly as an 
adult has. It has a right to privacy as to its own doings 
and its own affairs as much as if it were its own father. 


Small and Large Families 


These rights have now become more important than 
they used to be, because the modern praetice of limiting 
families enables them to be more effectually violated. In 
a family of ten, eight, six, or even four children, the rights 
of the younger ones to a great extent take eare of them- 
selves and of the rights of the elder ones too. Two adult 
parents, in spite of a house to keep and an ineome to earn, 
ean still interfere to a disastrous extent with the rights and 
liberties of one child. But by the time a fourth child has 
arrived, they are not only outnumbered two to one, but 
are getting tired of the thankless and mischievous job of 
bringing up their children in the way they think they 
should go. The old observation that members of large 
families get on in the world holds good beeause in large 


XxX Parents and Children 


families it is impossible for each child to receive what 
schoolmasters call “‘individual attention.”’ The children 
may receive a good deal of individual attention from one 
another in the shape of outspoken reproach, ruthless rid- 
icule, and violent resistance to their attempts at aggres- 
sion; but the parental despots are compelled by the mul- 
titude of their subjects to resort to political rather than 
personal rule, and to spread their attempts at moral 
monster-making over so many children, that each child 
has enough freedom, and enough sport in the prophylactic 
process of laughing at its elders behind their backs, to 
escape with much less damage than the single child. In 
a large school the system may be bad; but the personal 
influence of the head master has to be exerted, when it is 
exerted at all, in a public way, because he has little more 
power of working on the affections of the individual scholar 
in the intimate way that, for example, the mother of a 
single child can, than the prime minister has of working 
on the affections of any individual voter. 


Children as Nuisances 


Experienced parents, when children’s rights are preached 
to them, very naturally ask whether cluldren are to be al- 
lowed to do what they like. The best reply is to ask 
whether adults are to be allowed to do what they like. 
The two cases are the same. The adult who is nasty is 
not allowed to do what he likes: neither can the child 
who likes to be nasty. There is no difference in principle 
between the rights of a child and those of an adult: the 
difference in their cases is one of circumstance. An adult 
is not supposed to be punished except by process of law; 
nor, when he is so punished, is the person whom he has 
injured allowed to act as judge, jury, and executioner. 
It is true that employers do act in this way every day to 
their workpeople; but this is not a justified and intended 


Parents and Children XXI 


part of the situation: it is an abuse of Capitalism which 
nobody defends in principle. As between child and parent 
or nurse it is not argued about because it is inevitable. 
You cannot hold an impartial judicial inquiry every time 
a child misbehaves itself. To allow the child to misbe- 
have without instantly making it unpleasantly conscious 
of the fact would be to spoil it. The adult has therefore 
to take action of some sort with nothing but his conseience 
to shield the child from injustice or unkindness. ‘The ac- 
tion may be a torrent of scolding culminating in a furious 
smack causing terror and pain, or it may be a remon- 
strance causing remorse, or it may be a sarcasm causing 
shame and humiliation, or it may be a sermon causing the 
child to believe that it is a little reprobate on the road to 
hell. The child has no defence in any case exeept the 
kindness and conscience of the adult; and the adult had 
better not forget this; for it involves a heavy responsibility. 

And now comes our difficulty. The responsibility, be- 
ing so heavy, cannot be discharged by persons of feeble 
character or intelligence. And yet people of high character 
and intelligence cannot be plagued with the care of chil- 
dren. A child is a restless, noisy little animal, with an 
insatiable appetite for knowledge, and consequently a 
maddening persistence in asking questions. If the child 
is to remain in the room with a highly intelligent and sen- 
sitive adult, it must be told, and if necessary foreed, to 
sit still and not speak, which is injurious to its health, un- 
natural, unjust, and therefore cruel and selfish beyond 
toleration. Consequently the highly intelligent and sen- 
sitive adult hands the child over to a nurserymaid who 
has no nerves and can therefore stand more noise, but 
who has also no scruples, and may therefore be very bad 
company for the child. 

Here we have come to the central faet of the question: 
a fact nobody avows, which is yet the true explanation of 
the monstrous system of child imprisonment and torture 


XX Parents and Children 


which we disguise under such hypocrisies as education, 
training, formation of character and the rest of it. This 
fact is simply that a child is a nuisance to a grown-up 
person. What is more, the nuisance becomes more and 
more intolerable as the grown-up person becomes more 
cultivated, more sensitive, and more deeply engaged in 
the highest methods of adult work. The child at play is 
noisy and ought to be noisy: Sir Isaac Newton at work is 
quiet and ought to be quiet. And the child should spend 
most of its time at play, whilst the adult should spend 
most of his time at work. I am not now writing on behalf 
of persons who coddle themselves into a ridiculous con- 
dition of nervous feebleness, and at last imagine themselves 
unable to work under conditions of bustle which to healthy 
people are cheerful and stimulating. I am sure that if 
people had to choose between living where the noise of 
children never stopped and where it was never heard, all 
the goodnatured and sound people would prefer the in- 
cessant noise to the incessant silence. But that choice is 
not thrust upon us by the nature of things. There is no 
reason why children and adults should not see just as 
much of one another as is good for them, no more and no 
less. Even at present you are not compelled to choose 
between sending your child to a boarding school (which 
means getting rid of it altogether on more or less hypo- 
critical pretences) and keeping it continually at home. 
Most working folk today either send their children to 
day schools or turn them out of doors. This solves the 
problem for the parents. It does not solve it for the chil- 
dren, any more than the tethering of a goat in a field or 
the chasing of an unlicensed dog into the streets solves it 
for the goat or the dog; but it shews that in no class are 
people willing to endure the society of their children, and 
consequently that it ts an error to believe that the family 
provides children with edifying adult society, or that the 
family is a social unit. The family is in that, as in so many 


Parents and Children XXII 


other respects, a humbug. Old people and young people 
cannot walk at the same pace without distress and final 
loss of health to one of the parties. When they are sitting 
indoors they cannot endure the same degrees of tempera- 
ture and the same supplies of fresh air. Even if the main 
factors of noise, restlessness, and inquisitiveness are left 
out of account, children can stand with indifference sights, 
sounds, smells, and disorders that would make an adult 
of fifty utterly miserable; whilst on the other hand such 
adults find a tranquil happiness in conditions which to 
children mean unspeakable boredom. And _ since our 
system is nevertheless to pack them all into the same house 
and pretend that they are happy, and that this particular 
sort of happiness is the foundation of virtue, it is found 
that in discussing family life we never speak of actual 
adults or actual children, or of realities of any sort, but 
always of ideals such as The Home, a Mother’s Influence, 
a Father’s Care, Filial Piety, Duty, Affection, Family Life, 
etc. ete., which are no doubt very comforting phrases, 
but which beg the question of what a home and a mother’s 
influence and a father’s care and so forth really come to 
in practice. How many hours a week of the time when 
his children are out of bed does the ordinary bread-win- 
ning father spend in the company of his children or even 
in the same building with them? The home may be a 
thieves’ kitchen, the mother a procuress, the father a 
violent drunkard; or the mother and father may be fash- 
ionable people who see their children three or four times 
a year during the holidays, and then not oftener than they 
can help, living meanwhile in daily and intimate contact 
with their valets and lady’s-maids, whose influence and 
care are often dominant in the household. Affection, as 
distinguished from simple kindliness, may or may not 
exist: when it does it either depends on qualities in the 
parties that would produce it equally if they were of no 
kin to one another, or it is a more or less morbid survival 


XXIV Parents and Children 


of the nursing passion; for affection between adults (if 
they are really adult in mind and not merely grown-up 
children) and creatures so relatively selfish and cruel as 
children necessarily are without knowing it or meaning 
it, cannot be called natural: in fact the evidence shews 
that it is easier to love the company of a dog than of a 
commonplace child between the ages of six and the be- 
ginnings of controlled maturity; for women who cannot 
bear to be separated from their pet dogs send their chil- 
dren to boarding schools cheerfully. They may say and 
even believe that in allowing their children to leave home 
they are sacrificing themselves for their children’s good; 
but there are very few pet dogs who would not be the 
better for a month or two spent elsewhere than in a lady’s 
lap or roasting on a drawingroom hearthrug. Besides, 
to allege that children are better continually away from 
home is to give up the whole popular sentimental theory 
of the family; yet the dogs are kept and the children are 
banished. 


Child Fanciers 


There is, however, a good deal of spurious family affec- 
tion. There is the clannishness that will make a dozen 
brothers and sisters who quarrel furiously among them- 
selves close up their ranks and make common cause against 
a brother-in-law or a sister-in-law. And there is a strong 
sense of property in children, which often makes mothers 
and fathers bitterly jealous of allowing anyone else to 
interfere with their children, whom they may none the 
less treat very badly. And there is an extremely danger- 
ous craze for children which leads certain people to es- 
tablish orphanages and baby farms and schools, seizing 
any pretext for filling their houses with children exactly 
as some eccentric old ladies and gentlemen fill theirs with 
cats. In such places the children are the victims of all 
the caprices of doting affection and all the excesses of 


Parents and Children XXV 


lascivious cruelty. Yet the people who have this morbid 
eraze seldom have any difficulty in finding victims. Par- 
ents and guardians are so worried by children and so 
anxious to get rid of them that anyone who is willing to 
take them off their hands is welcomed and whitewashed. 
The very people who read with indignation of Squeers and 
Creakle in the novels of Dickens are quite ready to hand 
over their own children to Squeers and Creakle, and to 
pretend that Squeers and Creakle are monsters of the 
past. But read the autobiography of Stanley the traveller, 
or sit in the company of men talking about their school- 
days, and you will soon find that fiction, which must, if it 
is to be sold and read, stop short of being positively sick- 
ening, dare not tell the whole truth about the people to 
whom children are handed over on educational pretexts. 
Not very long ago a schoolmaster in Ireland was murdered 
by his boys; and for reasons which were never made public 
it was at first decided not to prosecute the murderers. 
Yet all these flogging schoolmasters and orphanage fiends 
and baby farmers are “lovers of children.” ‘They are 
really child fanciers (like bird fanciers or dog fanciers) by 
irresistible natural predilection, never happy unless they 
are surrounded by their victims, and always certain to 
make their living by accepting the custody of children, 
no matter how many alternative occupations may be 
available. And bear in mind that they are only the ex- 
treme instances of what is commonly called natural affec- 
tion, apparently because it is obviously unnatural. 

The really natural feeling of adults for children in the 
long prosaic intervals between the moments of affection- 
ate impulse is just that fecling that leads them to avoid 
their care and constant company as a burden beyond bear- 
ing, and to pretend that the places they send them to are 
well conducted, beneficial, and indispensable to the suc- 
eess of the children in after life. The true ery of the kind 
mother after her little rosary of kisses is “Run away, 


XXVI Parents and Children 


darling.”’ It is nicer than “‘Hold your noise, you young 
devil; or it will be the worse for you”’; but fundamentally 
it means the same thing: that if you compel an adult and 
a child to live in one another’s company either the adult 
or the child will be miserable. There is nothing whatever 
unnatural or wrong or shocking in this fact; and there is 
no harm in it if only it be sensibly faced and provided for. 
The mischief that it does at present is produced by our 
efforts to ignore it, or to smother it under a heap of sen- 
timental lies and false pretences. 


Childhood as a State of Sin 


Unfortunately all this nonsense tends to accumulate as 
we become more sympathetic. In many families it is 
still the custom to treat childhood frankly as a state of 
sin, and impudently proclaim the monstrous principle 
that little chiidren should be seen and not heard, and to 
enforce a set of prison rules designed solely to make co- 
habitation with children as convenient as possible for 
adults without the smallest regard for the interests, either 
remote or immediate, of the children. This system tends 
to produce a tough, rather brutal, stupid, unscrupulous 
class, with a fixed idea that all enjoyment consists in 
undetected sinning; and in certain phases of civilization 
people of this kind are apt to get the upper hand of more 
amiable and conscientious races and classes. They have 
the ferocity of a chained dog, and are proud of it. But the 
end of it is that they are always in chains, even at the 
height of their military or political success: they win 
everything on condition that they are afraid to enjoy it. 
Their civilizations rest on intimidation, which is so nec- 
essary to them that when they cannot find anybody 
brave enough to intimidate them they intimidate them- 
selves and live in a continual moral and political panic. 
In the end they get found out and bullied. But that is 


Parents and Children XXVI1 


not the point that concerns us here, which is, that they 
are in some respects better brought up than the children 
of sentimental people who are always anxious and miser- 
able about their duty to their children, and who end by 
neither making their children happy nor having a toler- 
able life for themselves. A selfish tyrant you know where to 
have, and he (or she) at least does not confuse your affec- 
tions; but a conscientious and kindly meddler may liter- 
ally worry you out of your senses. It is fortunate that 
only very few parents are capable of doing what they 
conceive their duty continuously or even at all, and that 
still fewer are tough enough to ride roughshod over their 
children at home. 


School 


But please observe the limitation “at home.” What 
private amateur parental enterprise cannot do may be 
done very effectively by organized professional enter- 
prise in large institutions established for the purpose. 
And it is to such professional enterprise that parents 
hand over their children when they can afford it. They 
send their children to school; and there is, on the whole, 
nothing on earth intended for innocent people so hor- 
rible as a school. To begin with, it is a prison. But it is 
in some respects more cruel than a prison. In a prison, 
for instance, you are not forced to read books written by 
the warders and the governor (who of course would not 
be warders and governors if they could write readable 
books), and beaten or otherwise tormented if you cannot 
remember their utterly unmemorable contents. In the 
prison you are not forced to sit listening to turnkeys dis- 
coursing without charm or interest on subjects that they 
dont understand and dont care about, and are therefore 
incapable of making you understand or care about. In 
a prison they may torture your body; but they do not 
torture your brains; and they protect you against violence 


XXVIII Parents and Children 


and outrage from your fellow prisoners. In a school you 
have none of these advantages. With the world’s book- 
shelves loaded with fascinating and inspired books, the 
very manna sent down from Heaven to feed your souls, 
you are forced to read a hideous imposture called a school 
book, written by a man who cannot write: a book from 
which no human being can learn anything: a book which, 
though you may decipher it, you cannot in any fruitful 
sense read, though the enforced attempt will make you 
loathe the sight of a book all the rest of your life. With 
millions of acres of woods and valleys and hills and wind 
and air and birds and streams and fishes and all sorts 
of instructive and healthy things easily accessible, or 
with streets and shop windows and crowds and vehicles 
and all sorts of city delights at the door, you are forced 
to sit, not in a room with some human grace and comfort 
of furniture and decoration, but in a stalled pound with 
a lot of other children, beaten if you talk, beaten if you 
move, beaten if you cannot prove by answering idiotic 
questions that even when you escaped from the pound 
and from the eye of your gaoler, you were still agonizing 
over his detestable sham books instead of daring to live. 
And your childish hatred of your gaoler and flogger is 
nothing to his adult hatred of you; for he is a slave forced 
to endure your society for his daily bread. You have 
not even the satisfaction of knowing how you are tortur- 
ing him and how he loathes you; and you give yourself 
unnecessary pains to annoy him with furtive tricks and 
spiteful doing of forbidden things. No wonder he is 
sometimes provoked to fiendish outbursts of wrath. No 
wonder men of downright sense, like Dr Johnson, admit 
that under such circumstances children will not learn 
anything unless they are so cruelly beaten that they 
make desperate efforts to memorize words and phrases 
to escape flagellation. It is a ghastly business, quite 
beyond words, this schooling. . 


Parents and Children XXIX 


And now I hear cries of protest arising all round. First 
my own schoolmasters, or their ghosts, asking whether I 
was cruelly beaten at school? No; but then I did not 
learn anything at school. Dr Johnson’s schoolmaster 
presumably did care enough whether Sam learned any- 
thing to beat him savagely enough to force him to lame 
his mind—for Johnson’s great mind was lamed—by learn- 
ing his lessons. None of my schoolmasters really cared 
a rap (or perhaps it would be fairer to them to say that 
their employers did not care a rap and therefore did not 
give them the necessary caning powers) whether I learnt 
my lessons or not, provided my father paid my schooling 
bill, the collection of whieh was the real object of the 
school. Consequently I did not learn my school lessons, 
having much more important ones in hand, with the re- 
sult that I have not wasted my life trifling with literary 
fools in taverns as Johnson did when he should have been 
shaking England with the thunder of his spirit. My 
schooling did me a great deal of harm and no good what- 
ever: it was simply dragging a ehild’s soul through the 
dirt; but I eseaped Squeers and Creakle just as I escaped 
Johnson and Carlyle. And this is what happens to most 
of us. We are not effectively coerced to learn: we stave 
off punishment as far as we can by lying and trickery and 
guessing and using our wits; and when this does not suffice 
we scribble impositions, or suffer extra 1mprisonments— 
“keeping in’’ was the phrase in my time—or let a master 
strike us with a cane and fall back on our pride at being 
able to bear it physieally (he not being allowed to hit us 
too hard) to outface the dishonor we should have been 
taught to die rather than endure. And so idleness and 
worthlessness on the one hand and a pretence of coereion 
on the other became a despicable routine. If my school- 
masters had been really engaged in educating me instead 
of painfully carning their bread by keeping me from an- 
noying my elders they would have turned me out of the 


XXX Parents and Children 


school, telling me that I was thoroughly disloyal to it; 
that I had no intention of learning; that I was mocking 
and distracting the boys who did wish to learn; that I 
was a liar and a shirker and a seditious little nuisance; 
and that nothing could injure me in character and degrade 
their occupation more than allowing me (much less fore- 
ing me) to remain in the school under such conditions. 
But in order to get expelled, it was necessary to commit a 
crime of such atrocity that the parents of other boys 
would have threatened to remove their sons sooner than 
allow them to be schoolfellows with the delinquent. I 
can remember only one case in which such a penalty was 
threatened; and in that case the culprit, a boarder, had 
kissed a housemaid, or possibly, being a handsome 
youth, been kissed by her. She did not kiss me; and no- 
body ever dreamt of expelling me. The truth was, a boy 
meant just so much a year to the institution. That was 
why he was kept there against his will. That was why 
he was kept there when his expulsion would have been an 
unspeakable relief and benefit both to his teachers and 
himself. 

It may be argued that if the uncommercial attitude had 
been taken, and all the disloyal wasters and idlers shewn 
sternly to the door, the school would not have been emp- 
tied, but filled. But so honest an attitude was impossible. 
The masters must have hated the school much more than 
the boys did. Just as you cannot imprison a man with- 
out imprisoning a warder to see that he does not escape, 
the warder being tied to the prison as effectually by the 
fear of unemployment and starvation as the prisoner is 
by the bolts and bars, so these poor schoolmasters, with 
their small salaries and large classes, were as much 
prisoners as we were, and much more responsible and 
anxious ones. They could not impose the heroic attitude 
on their employers; nor would they have been able to 
obtain places as schoolmasters if their habits had been 


Parents and Children XXXI 


heroic. For the best of them their employment was 
provisional: they looked forward to eseaping from it into 
the pulpit. The ablest and most impatient of them were 
often so irritated by the awkward, slow-witted, slovenly 
boys: that is, the ones that required special consideration 
and patient treatment, that they vented their irritation 
on them ruthlessly, nothing being easier than to entrap 
or bewilder such a boy into giving a pretext for punish- 
ing him. 


My Scholastic Acquirements 


The results, as far as I was coneerned, were what night 
have been expected. My school made only the thinnest 
pretence of teaching anything but Latin and Greek. 
When I went there as a very small boy I knew a good deal 
of Latin grammar which I had been taught in a few weeks 
privately by my uncle. When I had been several years 
at school this same uncle examined me and discovered 
that the net result of my schooling was that I had forgotten 
what he had taught me, and had learnt nothing else. To 
this day, though I can still decline a Latin noun and re- 
peat some of the old paradigms in the old meaningless 
way, because their rhythm sticks to me, I have never yet 
seen a Latin inscription on a tomb that I eould translate 
throughout. Of Greek I can decipher perhaps the greater 
part of the Greek alphabet. In short, I am, as to classical 
education, another Shakespear. I can read Freneh as 
easily as English; and under pressure of necessity I can 
turn to account some scraps of German and a little oper- 
atie Italian; but these I was never taught at school. In- 
stead, I was taught lying, dishonorable submission to 
tyranny, dirty stories, a blasphemous habit of treating 
love and maternity as obscene jokes, hopelessness, eva- 
sion, derision, cowardice, and all the blackguard’s shifts 
by which the coward intimidates other cowards. And if 


XXX Parents and Children 


I had been a boarder at an English public school instead 
of a day boy at an Irish one, I might have had to add to 
these, deeper shames still. 


Schoolmasters of Genius 


And now, if I have reduced the ghosts of my school- 
masters to melancholy acquiescence in all this (which 
everybody who has been at an ordinary school will recog- 
nize as true), I have still to meet the much more sincere 
protests of the handful of people who have a natural genius 
for “bringing up” children. I shall be asked with kindly 
scorn whether I have heard of Froebel and Pestalozzi, 
whether I know the work that is being done by Miss 
Mason and the Dottoressa Montessori or, best of all as I 
think, the Eurythmics School of Jacques Dalcroze at 
Hellerau near Dresden. Jacques Dalcroze, like Plato, 
believes in saturating his pupils with music. They walk 
to music, play to music, work to music, obey drill com- 
mands that would bewilder a guardsman to music, think 
to music, live to music, get so clearheaded about music 
that they can move their several limbs each in a different 
metre until they become complicated living magazines 
of cross rhythms, and, what is more, make music for others 
to do all these things to. Stranger still, though Jacques 
Dalcroze, like all these great teachers, is the completest 
of tyrants, knowing what is right and that he must and 
will have the lesson just so or else break his heart (not 
somebody else’s, observe), yet his school is so fascinating 
that every woman who sees it exclaims “‘Oh, why was I 
not tanght like this!’? and elderly gentlemen excitedly 
enro! themselves as students and distract classes of infants 
by their desperate endeavors to beat two in a bar with one 
hand and three with the other, and start off on earnest 
walks ronnd the room, taking two steps backward when- 
ever Monsieur Dalcroze calls out ‘‘Hop!’? Oh yes: I 


Parents and Children XXXII 


know all about these wonderful sehools that you cannot 
keep children or even adults out of, and these teachers 
whom their pupils not only obey without coercion, but 
adore. And if you will tell me roughly how many Masons 
and Montessoris and Dalerozes you think you can pick 
up in Europe for salaries of from thirty shillings to five 
pounds a week, I will estimate your chances of converting 
your millions of little scholastic hells into little scholastie 
heavens. If you are a distressed gentlewoman starting 
to make a living, you ean still open a little school; and 
you can easily buy a seeondhand brass plate inscribed 
PESTALOZZIAN INSTITUTE and nail it to your door, though 
you have no more idea of who Pestalozzi was and what 
he advocated or how he did it than the manager of a 
hotel which began as a Hydropathie has of the water 
eure. Or you can buy a cheaper plate inscribed KInpErR- 
GARTEN, and imagine, or leave others to imagine, that 
Froebel is the governing genius of your little créche. No 
doubt the new brass plates are being inscribed Montessori 
Institute, and will be used when the Dotteressa is no longer 
with us by all the Mrs Pipehins and Mrs Wilfers through- 
out this unhappy land. 

I will go further, and admit that the brass plates may 
not all be frauds. I will tell you that one of my friends 
was led to genuine love and considerable knowledge of 
classical literature by an Irish schoolmaster whom you 
would eall a hedge schoolmaster (he would not be allowed 
to teach anything now) and that it took four years of 
Harrow to obliterate that knowledge and change the love 
into loathing. Another friend of mine who keeps a sehool 
in the suburbs, and who deeply deplores my “prejudice 
against schoolmasters,”’ has offered to accept my chal- 
Jenge to tell his pupils that they are as free to get up and 
go out of the sehool at any moment as their parents are 
to get up and go out of a theatre where my plays are 
being performed. Even among my own schoolmasters I 


XXXIV Parents and Children 


ean recollect a few whose classes interested me, and whom 
I should certainly have pestered for information and in- 
struction if I could have got into any decent human re- 
lationship with them, and if they had not been compelled 
by their position to defend themselves as carefully against 
such advances as against furtive attempts to hurt them 
accidentally in the football field or smash their hats with 
a clod from behind a wall. But these rare cases actually 
do more harm than good; for they encourage us to pre- 
tend that all schoolmasters are like that. Of what use 
is 1t to us that there are always somewhere two or three 
teachers of children whose specific genius for their occu- 
pation triumphs over our tyrannous system and even finds 
in it its opportunity? For that matter, it is possible, if 
difficult, to find a solicitor, or even a judge, who has some 
notion of what law mcans, a doctor with a glimmering of 
science, an officer who understands duty and discipline, 
and a clergyman with an inkling of religion, though there 
are nothing like enough of them to go round. But even 
the few who, like Ibsen’s Mrs Solness, have “‘a genius for 
nursing the souls of little children”’ are like angels forced 
to work in prisons instead of in heaven; and even at that 
they are mostly underpaid and despised. That friend 
of mine who went from the hedge schoolmaster to Har- 
row once saw a schoolmaster rush from an elementary 
school in pursuit of a boy and strike him. My friend, not 
considering that the unfortunate man was _ probably 
goaded beyond endurance, smote the schoolmaster and 
blackened his eye. The schoolmaster appealed to the 
law; and my friend found himself waiting nervously in 
the Hammersmith Police Court to answer for his breach 
of the peace. In his anxiety he asked a police officer 
what would happen to him. ‘“‘What did you do?” said 
the officer. “I gave a man a black eve” said my friend. 
**Six pounds if he was a gentleman: two pounds if he 
wasnt,” said the constable. ‘‘He was a schoolmaster’”’ 


Parents and Children XXXV 


said my friend. ‘“‘Two pounds” said the officer; and two 
pounds it was. The blood money was paid cheerfully; 
and I have ever since advised elementary schoolmasters 
to qualify themselves in the art of self-defence, as the 
British Constitution expresses our national estimate of 
them by allowing us to blacken three of their eyes for 
the same price as one of an ordinary professional man. 
How many Froebels and Pestalozzis and Miss Masons 
and Doctoress Montessoris would you be likely to get on 
these terms even if they occurred much more frequently 
in nature than they actually do? 

No: I cannot be put off by the news that our system 
would be perfect if it were worked by angels. I do not 
admit it even at that, just as I do not admit that 
if the sky fell we should all catch larks. But I do 
not propose to bother about a supply of specific genius 
which does not exist, and which, if it did exist, could 
operate only by at once recognizing and establishing 
the rights of children. 


What We Do Not Teach, and Why 


To my mind, a glance at the subjects now taught in 
schools ought to convince any reasonable person that the 
object of the lessons is to keep children out of mischief, 
and not to qualify them for their part in life as responsible 
citizens of a free State. It is not possible to maintain 
freedom in any State, no matter how perfect its original 
constitution, unless its publicly active citizens know a good 
deal of constitutional history, law, and political science, 
with its basis of economies. If as much pains had been 
taken a century ago to make us all understand Ricardo’s 
law of rent as to learn our catechisms, the face of the world 
would have been changed for the better. But for that 
very reason the greatest care is taken to keep such bene- 
ficially subversive knowledge from us, with the result that 


XXXVI Parents and Children 


in public life we are either place-hunters, anarchists, or 
sheep shepherded by wolves. 

But it will be opserved that these are highly contro- 
versial subjects. Now no controversial subject can be 
taught dogmatically. He who knows only the official 
side of a controversy knows less than nothing of its nature. 
The abler a schoolmaster is, the more dangerous he is to 
his pupils unless they have the fullest opportunity of 
hearing another equally able person do his utmost to 
shake his authority and convict him of error. 

At present such teaching is very unpopular. It does 
not exist in schools; but every adult who derives his 
knowledge of public affairs from the newspapers can take 
in, at the cost of an extra halfpenny, two papers of oppo- 
site politics. Yet the ordinary man so dislikes having his 
mind unsettled, as he calls it, that he angrily refuses to 
allow a paper which dissents from his views to be brought 
into his house. Even at his club he resents seeing it, and 
excludes it if it happens to run counter to the opinions 
of all the members. The result is that his opinions are 
not worth considering. A churchman who never reads 
The Freethinker very soon has no more real religion than 
the atheist who never reads The Church Times. The at- 
titude is the same in both cases: they want to hear 
nothing good of their enemies; consequently they remain 
enemies and suffer from bad blood all their lives; whereas 
men who know their opponents and understand their 
case, quite commonly respect and like them, and always 
learn something from them. 

Here, again, as at so many points, we come up against 
the abuse of schools to keep people in ignorance and error, 
so that they may be incapable of successful revolt against 
their industrial slavery. The most important simple 
fundamental economic truth to impress on a child in 
complicated civilizations like ours is the truth that who- 
ever consumes goods or services without producing by 


Parents and Children XXXVI 


personal effort the equivalent of what he or she consumes, 
inflicts on the community precisely the same injury that 
a thief produces, and would, in any honest State, be treated 
as a thief, however full his or her poekets might be of 
money made by other people. The nation that first teaches 
its children that truth, instead of flogging them if they 
discover it for themselves, may have to fight all the slaves 
of all the other nations to begin with; but it will beat them 
as easily as an unburdened man with his hands free and 
with all his energies in full play can beat an invalid who 
has to carry another invalid on his back. 

This, however, is not an evil produced by the denial of 
children’s rights, nor is it inherent in the nature of schools. 
I mention it only because it would be folly to call for a 
reform of our schools without taking account of the cor- 
rupt resistance which awaits the reformer. 

A word must also be said about the opposition to re- 
form of the vested interest of the classical and coercive 
schoolmaster. He, poor wretch, has no other means of 
livelihood; and reform would leave him as a workman is 
now left when he is superseded by a machine. He had 
therefore better do what he can to get the workman com- 
pensated, so as to make the public familiar with the idea 
of compensation before his own turn comes. 


Taboo in Schools 


The suppression of economic knowledge, disastrous as 
it is, is quite intelligible, its corrupt motive being as clear 
as the motive of a burglar for concealing his jemmy 
from a policeman. But the other great suppression 1 
our schools, the suppression of the subject of sex, is a 
case of taboo. In mankind, the lower the type, and 
the less cultivated the mind, the less courage there is 
to face important subjects objeetively. The ablest and 
inmost highly cultivated people continually discuss religion, 


XXXVI Parents and Children ' 


politics, and sex: it is hardly an exaggeration to say that 
they discuss nothing else with fully-awakened interest. 
Commoner and less cultivated people, even when they 
form societies for discussion, make a rule that polities and 
religion are not to be mentioned, and take it for granted 
that no decent person would attempt to discuss sex. The 
three subjects are feared because they rouse the crude 
passions which call for furious gratification in murder and 
rapine at worst, and, at best, lead to quarrels and unde- 
sirable states of consciousness. 

Even when this excuse of bad manners, ill temper, and 
brutishness (for that is what it comes to) compels us to 
accept it from those adults among whom political and 
theological discussion does as a matter of fact lead to the 
drawing of knives and pistols, and sex discussion leads to 
obscenity, it has no application to children except as an 
imperative reason for training them to respect other peo- 
ple’s opinions, and to insist on respect for their own in 
these as in other important matters which are equally 
dangerous: for example, money. And in any case there 
are decisive reasons; superior, like the reasons for sus- 
pending conventional reticences between doctor and pa- 
tient, to all considerations of mere decorum, for giving 
proper instruction in the facts of sex. Those who object 
to 1t (not counting coarse people who thoughtlessly seize 
every opportunity of affecting and parading a fictitious 
delicacy) are, in effect, advocating ignorance as a safe- 
guard against precocity. If ignorance were practicable 
there would be something to be said for it up to the age 
at which ignorance is a danger instead of a safeguard. 
Even as it is, it seems undesirable that any special em- 
phasis should be given to the subject, whether by way of 
delicacy and poetry or too impressive warning. But the 
plain fact is that in refusing to allow the child to be taught 
by qualified unrelated elders (the parents shrink from the 
lesson, even whien they are otherwise qualified, because 


Parents and Children XXX1X 


their own relation to the child makes the subject impossible 
between them) we are virtually arranging to have our 
children taught by other children in guilty secrets and 
unclean jests. And that settles the question for all sen- 
sible people. 

The dogmatic objection, the sheer instinctive taboo 
which rules the subject out altogether as indecent, has 
no age limit. It means that at no matter what age a 
woman consents to a proposal of marriage, she should do 
so in ignorance of the relation she is undertaking. When 
this actually happens (and apparently it does happen 
oftener than would seem possible) a horrible fraud is 
being practiced on both the man and the woman. He ts 
led to believe that she knows what she is promising, and 
that he is in no danger of finding himself bound to a woman 
to whom he is eugenically antipathetic. She contemplates 
nothing but such affectionate relations as may exist be- 
tween her and her nearest kinsmen, and has no knowledge 
of the condition which, if not foreseen, must come as an 
aniazing revelation and a dangerous shock, ending possibly 
in the discovery that the marriage has been an irreparable 
mistake. Nothing can justify such a risk. There may 
be people incapable of understanding that the right to 
know all there is to know about oneself is a natural human 
right that sweeps away all the pretences of others to tam- 
per with one’s consciousness in order to produce what 
they choose to consider a good character. But they must 
here bow to the plain mischievousness of entrapping peo- 
ple into eontracts on which the happiness of their whole 
lives depends without letting them know what they are 
undertaking. 


Alleged Novelties in Modern Schools 


There is just one more nuisance to be disposed of before 
I come to the positive side of my case. I mean the per- 


xl Parents and Children 


son who tells me that my schooldays belong to a bygone 
order of educational ideas and institutions, and that schools 
are not now a bit like my old school. I reply, with Sir 
Walter Raleigh, by calling on my soul to give this state- 
ment the lie. Some years ago [ lectured in Oxford on 
the subject of Education. A frend to whom I mentioned 
my intention said, ““You know nothing of modern edu- 
cation: schools are not now what they were when you 
were a boy.” I immediately procured the time sheets of 
half a dozen modern schools, and found, as I expected, 
that they might all have been my old school: there was 
no real difference. I may mention, too, that I have vis- 
ited modern schools, and observed that there is a tendency 
to hang printed pictures in an untidy and soulless manner 
on the walls, and occasionally to display on the mantel- 
shelf a deplorable glass case containing certain objects 
which might possibly, if placed in the hands of the pupils, 
give them some practical experience of the weight of a 
pound and the length of an inch. And sometimes a 
scoundrel who has rifled a bird’s nest or killed a harmless 
snake encourages the children to go and do likewise by 
putting his victims into an imitation nest and bottle and 
exhibiting them as aids to “Nature study.’ A suggestion 
that Nature is worth study would certainly have staggered 
my schoolmasters; so perhaps I may admit a gleam of 
progress here. But as any child who attempted to handle 
these dusty objeets would probably be caned, I do not 
attach any importance to such modernities in school 
furniture. The school rematns what it was in my boy- 
hood, because its real object remains what it was. And 
that object, I repeat, is to keep the children out of mis- 
chief: mischief meaning for the most part worrying the 
grown-ups. 


Parents and Children xh 


What is to be Done? 


The practical question, then, is what to do with the 
children. ‘Tolerate them at home we will not. Let them 
run loose in the streets we dare not until our streets be- 
come safe places for children, whieh, to our utter shame, 
they are not at present, though they can hardly be worse 
than some homes and some schools. 

The grotesque difficulty of making even a beginning 
was brought home to me in the little village in Hertford- 
shire where I write these lines by the lady of the manor, 
who asked me very properly what I was going to do for 
the village school. I did not know what to reply. As 
the school kept the children quiet during my working 
hours, I did not for the sake of my own personal conven- 
ience want to blow it up with dynamite as I should like 
to blow up most schools. So I asked for guidanee. “You 
ought to give a prize,” said the lady. I asked if there was 
a prize for good conduct. As I expected, there was: one 
for the best-behaved boy and another for the best-be- 
haved girl. On reflection I offered a handsome prize for 
the worst-behaved boy and girl on condition that a record 
should be kept of their subsequent careers and compared 
with the records of the best-behaved, in order to ascer- 
tain whether the school criterion of good conduct was valid 
out of school. My offer was refused because it would not 
have had the effect of encouraging the ehildren to give 
as little trouble as possible, which is of course the real 
object of all conduct prizes in schools. 

I must not pretend, then, that I have a system ready 
to replace all the other systems. Obstructing the way of 
the proper organization of childhood, as of everything else, 
lies our ridiculous misdistribution of the national income, 
with its accompanying class distinctions and imposition 
of snobbery on children as a necessary part of their social 
training. The result of our economic folly is that we are 


xl Parents and Children 


a nation of undesirable acquaintances; and the first object 
of all our institutions for children is segregation. If, for 
example, our children were set free to roam and play about 
as they pleased, they would have to be policed; and the 
first duty of the police in a State like ours would be to see 
that every child wore a badge indicating its class in so- 
ciety, and that every child seen speaking to another child 
with a lower-class badge, or any child wearing a higher 
badge than that allotted to it by, say, the College of 
Heralds, should immediately be skinned alive with a birch 
rod. It might even be insisted that girls with high-class 
badges should be attended by footmen, grooms, or even 
military escorts. In short, there is hardly any limit to 
the follies with which our Commercialism would infect 
any system that it would tolerate at all. But something 
like a change of heart is still possible; and since all the 
evils of snobbery and segregation are rampant in our 
schools at present we may as well make the best as the 
worst of them. 


Children’s Rights and Duties 


Now let us ask what are a child’s rights, and what are 
the rights of society over the child. Its rights, being clearly 
those of any other human being, are summed up in the 
right to live: that is, to have all the conclusive arguments 
that prove that it would be better dead, that it is a child 
of wrath, that the population is already excessive, that 
the pains of life are greater than its pleasures, that its 
sacrifice in a hospital or laboratory experiment might 
save millions of lives, ete. etc. etc., put out of the question, 
and its existence accepted as necessary and sacred, all 
theories to the contrary notwithstanding, whether by 
Calvin or Schopenhauer or Pasteur or the nearest person 
with a taste for infanticide. And this right to live in- 
cludes, and in fact is, the right to be what the child likes 


Parents and Children xl 


and can, to do what it likes and can, to make what it hkes 
and ean, to think what it likes and can, to smash what it 
dislikes and can, and generally to behave in an altogether 
unaccountable manner within the limits imposed by the 
similar rights of its neighbors. And the rights of socicty 
over it clearly extend to requiring it to qualify itself to 
live in society without wasting other peoples time: that 1s, 
it must know the rules of the road, be able to read pla- 
eards and proclamations, fill voting papers, compose and 
send letters and telegrams, purchase food and clothing and 
railway tickets for itself, count money and give and take 
change, and, generally, know how many beans made five. 
It must know some law, were it only a simple set of com- 
mandments, some political economy, agriculture enough 
to shut the gates of fields with cattle in them and not to 
trample on growing crops, sanitation enough not to defile 
its haunts, and religion enough to have some idea of why 
it is allowed its rights and why it must respect the rights 
of others. And the rest of its education must consist of 
anything else it can pick up; for beyond this society can- 
not go with any certainty, and indeed can only go this 
far rather apologetically and provisionally, as doing the 
best it can on very uncertain ground. 


Should Children Earn their Living? 


Now comes the question how far children should be 
asked to contribute to the support of the community. In 
approaching it we must put aside the considerations 
that now induce all humane and thoughtful political stu- 
dents to agitate for the uncompromising abolition of child 
labor under our capitalist system. It is not the least of 
the curses of that system that it will bequeath to future 
generations a mass of legislation to prevent capitalists 
from “‘using up nine generations of men in one generation, ” 
as they began by doing until they were restrained by law 


xliv Parents and Children 


at the suggestion of Robert Owen, the founder of English 
Socialism. Most of this legislation will become an in- 
sufferable restraint upon freedom and variety of action 
when Capitalism goes the way of Druidic human sacri- 
fice (a much less slaughterous institution). There is 
every reason why a child should not be allowed to work 
for commercial profit or for the support of its parents at 
the expense of its own future; but there is no reason 
whatever why a child should not do some work for its own 
sake and that of the community if it can be shewn that 
both it and the community will be the better for it. 


Children’s Happiness 


Also it is important to put the happiness of the children 
rather carefully in its place, which is really not a front 
place. The unsympathetic, selfish, hard people who re- 
gard happiness as a very exceptional indulgence to which 
children are by no means entitled, though they may be 
allowed a very little of it on their birthdays or at Christ- 
mas, are sometimes better parents in effect than those who 
imagine that children are as capable of happiness as 
adults. Adults habitually exaggerate their own capacity 
in that direction grossly; yet most adults can stand an 
allowance of happiness that would be quite thrown away 
on children. The secret of being miserable is to have 
leisure to bother about whether you are happy or not. 
The cure for it is occupation, because occupation means 
pre-occupation; and the pre-occupied person is neither 
happy nor unhappy, but simply alive and active, which 
is pleasanter than any happiness until you are tired of it. 
That is why it is necessary to happiness that one should 
be tired. Music after dinner is pleasant: music before 
breakfast is so unpleasant as to be clearly unnatural. To 
people who are not overworked holidays are a nuisance. 
To people who are, and who can afford them, they are a 


Parents and Children xlv 


troublesome necessity. A perpetual holiday is a good 
working definition of hell. 


The Horror of the Perpetual Holiday 


It will be said here that, on the contrary, heaven is 
always conceived as a perpetual holiday, and that who- 
ever is not born to an independent income is striving for 
one or longing for one because it gives holidays for life. 
To which I reply, first, that heaven, as conventionally 
conceived, is a place so inane, so dull, so useless, so miser- 
able, that nobody has ever ventured to describe a whole 
day in heaven, though plenty of people have described a 
day at the seaside; and that tle genuine popular verdict 
on it is expressed in the proverb “‘Heaven for holiness 
and Hell for company.’’ Second, I point out that the 
wretched people who have independent incomes and no 
useful occupation, do the most amazingly disagreeable 
and dangerous things to make themselves tired and hun- 
ery in the evening. When they are not involved in what 
they call sport, they are doing aimlessly what other peo- 
ple have to be paid to do: driving horses and motor cars; 
trying on dresses and walking up and down to shew them 
off; and acting as footmen and housemaids to royal per- 
sonages. The sole and obvious cause of the notion that 
idleness is delightful and that heaven is a place where 
there is nothing to be done, is our school system and our 
industrial system. The school is a prison in which work 
is a punishment and a curse. In avowed prisons, hard 
labor, the only alleviation of a prisoner’s lot, is treated as 
an aggravation of his punishment; and everything possible 
is done to intensify the prisoner’s inculcated and unnatural 
notion that work is an evil. In industry we are over- 
worked and underfed prisoners. Under such absurd cir- 
cumstances our judgment of things becomes as perverted 
as our habits. If we were habitually underworked and 


xlv1 Parents and Children 


overfed, our notion of heaven would be a place where 
everybody worked strenuously for twenty-four hours a 
day and never got anything to eat. 

Once realize that a perpetual holiday is beyond human 
endurance, and that “‘Satan finds some mischief still for 
idle hands to do”’ and it will be seen that we have no right 
to impose a perpetual holiday on children. If we did, 
they would soon outdo the Labor Party in their claim for 
a Right to Work Bill. 

In any case no child should be brought up to suppose 
that its food and clothes come down from heaven or are 
miraculously conjured from empty space by papa. Loath- 
some as we have made the idea of duty (like the idea of 
work) we must habituate children to a sense of repayable 
obligation to the community for what they consume and 
enjoy, and inculcate the repayment as a point of honor. 
If we did that today—and nothing but flat dishonesty 
prevents us from doing it—we should have no idle rich 
and indeed probably no rich, since there is no distinction 
in being rich if you have to pay scot and lot in personal 
effort like the working folk. Therefore, if for only half 
an hour a day, a child should do something serviceable 
to the community. 

Productive work for children has the advantage that 
its discipline is the discipline of impersonal necessity, not 
that of wanton personal coercion. The eagerness of chil- 
dren in our industrial districts to escape from school to 
the factory is not caused by lighter tasks or shorter hours 
in the factory, nor altogether by the temptation of wages, 
nor even by the desire for novelty, but by the dignity of 
adult work, the exchange of the factitious personal tyranny 
of the schoolmaster, from which the grown-ups are free, 
for the stern but entirely dignified Laws of Life to which 
all flesh is subject. 


Parents and Children xlvul 


University Schoolboyishness 


Older children might do a good deal before beginning 
their collegiate education. What is the matter with our 
universities is that all the students are schoolboys, whereas 
it is of the very essence of university education that they 
should be men. The function of a university is not to 
teach things that can now be taught as well or better by 
University Extension lectures or by private tutors or mod- 
ern correspondence classes with gramophones. We go to 
them to be socialized; to acquire the hall mark of com- 
munal training; to become citizens of the world instead of 
inmates of the enlarged rabbit hutches we call homes; to 
learn manners and become unchallengeable ladies and 
gentlemen. The social pressure which effects these changes 
should be that of persons who have faced the full respon- 
sibilities of adults as working members of the general 
community, not that of a barbarous rabble of half eman- 
cipated schoolboys and unemancipable pedants. It is 
true that in a reasonable state of society this outside ex- 
perience would do for us very completely what the uni- 
versity does now so corruptly that we tolerate its bad 
manners only because they are better than no manners 
at all. But the university will always exist in some form 
as a community of persons desirous of pushing their cul- 
ture to the highest pitch they are capable of, not as solitary 
students reading in seclusion, but as members of a body 
of individuals all pursuing culture, talking culture, think- 
ing culture, above all, criticizing culture. If such persons 
are to read and talk and criticize to any purpose, they 
must know the world outside the university at least as 
well as the shopkeeper in the High Street does. And this 
is just what they do not know at present. You may say 
of them, paraphrasing Mr. Kipling, “What do they know 
of Plato that only Plato know?” If our universities 
would exclude everybody who had not earned a living by 


xlvini Parents and Children 


his or her own exertions for at least a couple of years> 
their effect would be vastly improved. 


The New Laziness 


The child of the future, then, if there is to be any 
future but one of decay, will work more or less for its 
living from an early age; and in doing so it will not shock 
anyone, provided there be no longer any reason to asso- 
ciate the conception of children working for their living 
with infants toiling in a factory for ten hours a day or 
boys drudging from nine to six under gas lamps in under- 
ground city offices. Lads and lasses in their teens will 
probably be able to produce as much as the most ex- 
pensive person now costs in his own person (it is retinue 
that eats up the big income) without working too hard 
or too long for quite as much happiness as they can en- 
joy. The question to be balanced then will be, not how 
soon people should be put to work, but how soon they 
should be released from any obligation of the kind. A 
life’s work is like a day’s work: it can begin early and 
leave off early or begin late and leave off late, or, as with 
us, begin too early and never leave off at all, obviously 
the worst of all possible plans. In any event we must 
finally reckon work, not as the curse our schools and 
prisons and capitalist profit factories make it seem today, 
but as a prime necessity of a tolerable existence. And if 
we cannot devise fresh wants as fast as we develop the 
means of supplying them, there will come a scarcity of the 
needed, cut-and-dried, appointed work that is always 
ready to everybody’s hand. It may have to be shared 
out among people all of whom want more of it. And then 
a new sort of Jaziness will become the bugbear of society: 
the laziness that refuses to face the mental toil and ad- 
venture of making work by inventing new ideas or ex- 
tending the domain of knowledge, and insists on a ready- 


Parents and Children xlix 


made routine. It may come to forcing people to retire 
before they are willing to make way for younger ones: 
that is, to driving all persons of a certain age out of in- 
dustry, leaving them to find something experimental to 
occupy them on pain of perpetual holiday. Men will 
then try to spend twenty thousand a year for the sake of 
having to earn it. Instead of being what we are now, 
the cheapest and nastiest of the animals, we shall be the 
costliest, most fastidious, and best bred. In short, there 
is no end to the astonishing things that may happen when 
the curse of Adam becomes first a blessing and then an 
incurable habit. And in that day we must not grudge 
children their share of it. 


The Infinite School Task 


The question of children’s work, however, is only a 
question of what the child ought to do for the community. 
How highly it should qualify itself is another matter. 
But most of the difficulty of inducing children to learn 
would disappear if our demands became not only definite 
but finite. When learning is only an excuse for imprison- 
ment, it is an instrument of torture which becomes more 
painful the more progress is made. Thus when you have 
forced a child to learn the Church Catechism, a docu- 
ment profound beyond the comprehension of most adults, 
you are sometimes at a standstill for something else to 
teach; and you therefore keep the wretched child repeat- 
ing its catechism again and again until you hit on the 
plan of making it learn instalments of Bible verses, prefer- 
ably from the book of Numbers. But as it is less trouble 
to set a lesson that you know yourself, there is a tendency 
to keep repeating the already learnt lesson rather than 
break new ground. At school I began with a fairly com- 
plete knowledge of Latin grammar in the childish sense 
of being able to repeat all the paradigms; and I was kept 


| Parents and Children 


at this, or rather kept in a class where the master never 
asked me to do it because he knew I could, and therefore 
devoted himself to trapping the boys who could not, until 
I finally forgot most of it. But when progress took place, 
what did it mean? First it meant Caesar, with the fore- 
knowledge that to master Caesar meant only being set at 
Virgil, with the culminating horror of Greek and Homer 
in reserve at the end of that. I preferred Caesar, because 
his statement that Gaul is divided into three parts, though 
neither interesting nor true, was the only Latin sentence 
I could translate at sight: therefore the longer we stuck 
at Caesar the better I was pleased. Just so do less classic- 
ally educated children see nothing in the mastery of ad- 
dition but the beginning of subtraction, and so on through 
multiplication and division and fractions, with the black 
cloud of algebra on the horizon. And if a boy rushes 
through all that, there is always the calculus to fall back 
on, unless indeed you insist on his learning music, and 
proceed to hit him if he cannot tell you the year Beethoven 
was born. 

A child has a right to finality as regards its compul- 
sory lessons. Also as regards physical training. At pres- 
ent it is assumed that the schoolmaster has a right to 
force every child into an attempt to become Porson and 
Bentley, Leibnitz and Newton, all rolled into one. This 
is the tradition of the oldest grammar schools. In our 
times an even more horrible and cynical claim has been 
made for the right to drive boys through compulsory 
games in the playing fields until they are too much ex- 
hausted physically to do anything but drop off to sleep. 
This is supposed to protect them from vice; but as it also 
protects them from poetry, literature, music, meditation 
and prayer, it may be dismissed with the obvious remark 
that if boarding schools are places whose keepers are driven 
to such monstrous measures lest more abominable things 
should happen, then the sooner boarding schools are vio- 


Parents and Children li 


lently abolished the better. It is true that society may 
make physical claims on the child as well as mental ones: 
the child must learn to walk, to use a knife and fork, to 
swim, to ride a bicycle, to acquire sufficient power of self- 
defence to make an attack on it an arduous and uncertain 
enterprise, perhaps to fly. What as a matter of common- 
sense it clearly has not a right to do is to make this an 
excuse for keeping the child slaving for ten hours at phys- 
ical exercises on the ground that it is not yet as dexterous 
as Cinquevalli and as strong as Sandow. 


The Rewards and Risks of Knowledge 


In a word, we have no right to insist on educating a 
child; for its education can end only with its life and will 
not even then be complete. Compulsory completion of 
education is the last folly of a rotten and desperate civ- 
lization. It is the rattle in its throat before dissolution. 
All we can fairly do is to prescribe certain definite ac- 
quirements and accomplishments as qualifications for 
certain employments; and to secure them, not by the 
ridiculous method of mflicting injuries on the persons who 
have not yet mastered them, but by attaching certain 
privileges (not pecuniary) to the employments. 

Most acquirements carry their own privileges with 
them. ‘Thus a baby has to be pretty closely guarded and 
imprisoned because it cannot take care of itself. It has 
even to be carried about (the most complete conceivable 
infringement of its liberty) until it can walk. But nobody 
goes on carrying children after they can walk lest they 
should walk into mischief, though Arab boys make their 
sisters carry them, as our own spoiled children sometimes 
make their nurses, out of mere laziness, because sisters in 
the East and nurses in the West are kept in servitude. But 
in a society of equals (the only reasonable and perma- 
nently possible sort of society) children are in much greater 


lu Parents and Children 


danger of acquiring bandy legs through being left to walk 
before they are strong enough than of being carried when 
they are well able to walk. Anyhow, freedom of move- 
ment in a nursery is the reward of learning to walk; and 
in precisely the same way freedom of movement in a city 
is the reward of learning how to read public notices, and 
to count and use money. The consequences are of course 
much larger than the mere ability to read the name of a 
street or the number of a railway platform and the destina- 
tion of a train. When you enable a child to read these, 
you also enable it to read this preface, to the utter destruc- 
tion, you may quite possibly think, of its morals and 
docility. You also expose it to the danger of being run 
over by taxicabs and trains. The moral and _ physical 
risks of education are enormous: every new power a 
child acquires, from speaking, walking, and co-ordinat- 
ing its vision, to conquering continents and founding 
religions, opens up immense new possibilities of mischief. 
Teach a child to write and you teach it how to forge: 
teach 1t to speak and you teach it how to lie:: teach it 
to walk and you teach it how to kick its mother to 
death. 

The great problem of slavery for those whose aim is to 
maintain it is the problem of reconciling the efficiency of 
the slave with the helplessness that keeps him in servi- 
tude; and this problem is fortunately not completely 
soluble; for it is not in fact found possible for a duke to 
treat his solicitor or his doctor as he treats his laborers, 
though they are all equally his slaves: the laborer being 
in fact less dependent on his favor than the professional 
man. Hence it is that men come to resent, of all things, 
protection, because it so often means restriction of their 
liberty lest they should make a bad use of it. If there are 
dangerous precipices about, it is much easier and cheaper 
to forbid people to walk near the edge than to put up an 
effective fence: that is why both legislators and parents 


Parents and Children hi 


and the paid deputies of parents are always inhibiting and 
prohibiting and punishing and scolding and laming and 
cramping and delaying progress and growth instead of 
making the dangerous places as safe as possible and then 
boldly taking and allowing others to take the irreducible 
minimum of risk. 


English Physical Hardihood and Spiritual 


Cowardice 


It is easier to convert most people to the need for allow- 
ing their children to run physical risks than moral ones. 
I can remember a relative of mine who, when I was a small 
child, unused to horses and very much afraid of them, 
insisted on putting me on a rather rumbustious pony 
with little spurs on my heels (knowing that in my agitation 
I would use them unconsciously), and being enormously 
amused at my terrors. Yet when that same lady discov- 
ered that I had found a copy of The Arabian Nights and 
was devouring it with avidity, she was horrified, and hid 
it away from me lest it should break my soul as the pony 
might have broken my neck. This way of producing 
hardy bodies and timid souls is so common in country 
houses that you may spend hours in them listening to 
stories of broken collar bones, broken backs, and broken 
necks without coming upon a single spiritual adventure 
or daring thought. 

But whether the risks to which liberty exposes us are 
moral or physical our right to liberty involves the right 
to run them. A man who is not free to risk his neck as 
an aviator or his soul as a heretic is not free at all; and the 
right to liberty begins, not at the age of 21 years but of 
21 seconds. 


liv Parents and Children 


The Risks of Ignorance and Weakness 


The difficulty with children is that they need protection 
from risks they are too young to understand, and attacks 
they can neither avoid nor resist. You may on academic 
grounds allow a child to snatch glowing coals from the 
fire once. You will not do it twice. The risks of liberty 
we must let everyone take; but the risks of ignorance and 
self-helplessness are another matter. Not only children 
but adults need protection from them. At present adults 
are often exposed to risks outside their knowledge or 
beyond their comprehension or powers of resistance or 
foresight: for example, we have to look on every day at 
marriages or financial speculations that may involve far 
worse consequences than burnt fingers. And just as it 
is part of the business of adults to protect children, to 
feed them, clothe them, shelter them, and shift for them 
in all sorts of ways until they are able to shift for them- 
selves, it is coming more and more to be seen that this is 
true not only of the relation between adults and children, 
but between adults and adults. We shall not always look 
on indifferently at foolish marriages and financial specu- 
lations, nor allow dead men to control live communities 
by ridiculous wills and living heirs to squander and ruin 
great estates, nor tolerate a hundred other absurd lib- 
erties that we allow today because we are too lazy to find 
out the proper way to interfere. But the interference must 
be regulated by some theory of the individual’s rights. 
Though the right to live is absolute, it is not unconditional. 
If a man is unbearably mischievous, he must be killed. 
This is a mere matter of necessity, like the killing of a 
man-eating tiger in a nursery, a venomous snake in the 
garden, or a fox in the poultry yard. No society could be 
constructed on the assumption that such extermination 
is a violation of the creature’s right to live, and therefore 
must not be allowed. And then at once arises the danger 


Parents and Children lv 


into which morality has led us: the danger of persecution. 
One Christian spreading his doctrines may seem more 
mischievous than a dozen thieves: throw him therefore to 
the lions. <A lying or disobedient child may corrupt a 
whole generation and make human Society impossible: 
therefore thrash the vice out of him. And so on until our 
whole system of abortion, intimidation, tyranny, cruelty 
and the rest is in full swing again. 


~The Common Sense of Toleration 


The real safeguard against this is the dogma of Tolera- 
tion. I need not here repeat the compact treatise on it 
which I prepared for the Joint Committee on the Censor- 
ship of Stage Plays, and prefixed to The Shewing Up of 
Blanco Posnet. It must suffice now to say that the present 
must not attempt to schoolmaster the future by pretend- 
ing to know good from evil in tendency, or protect citizens 
against shocks to their opinions and convictions, moral, 
political or religious: in other words it must not persecute 
doctrines of any kind, or what is called bad taste, and 
must insist on all persons facing such shocks as they face 
frosty weather or any of the other disagreeable, dangerous, 
or bracing incidents of freedom. ‘The expediency of Tol- 
eration has been forced on us by the fact that progressive 
enlightenment depends on a fair hearing for doctrines 
which at first appear seditious, blasphemous, and immoral, 
and which deeply shock people who never think originally, 
thought being with them merely a habit and an echo. 
The deeper ground for Toleration is the nature of creation, 
which, as we now know, proceeds by evolution. Evolu- 
tion finds its way by experiment; and this finding of the 
way varies according to the stage of development reached, 
from the blindest groping along the line of least resistance 
to intellectual speculation, with its practical sequel of 
hypothesis and experimental verification; or to observa- 


lvi Parents and Children 


tion, induction, and deduction; or even into so rapid and 
intuitive an integration of all these processes in a single 
brain that we get the inspired guess of the man of genius 
and the desperate resolution of the teacher of new truths 
who is first slain as a blasphemous apostate and then 
worshipped as a prophet. 

Here the law for the child is the same as for the adult. 
The high priest must not rend his garments and cry 
““Crucify him’ when he is shocked: the atheist must not 
clamor for the suppression of Law’s Serious Call because 
it has for two centuries destroyed the natural happiness 
of innumerable unfortunate children by persuading their 
parents that it is their religious duty to be miserable. It, 
and the Sermon on the Mount, and Machiavelli’s Prince, 
and La Rochefoucauld’s maxims, and Hymns Ancient and 
Modern, and De Glanville’s apologue, and Dr. Watts’s 
rhymes, and Nietzsche’s Gay Science, and Ingersoll’s 
Mistakes of Moses, and the speeches and pamphlets of 
the people who want us to make war on Germany, and 
the Noodle’s Orations and articles of our politicians and 
journalists, must all be tolerated not only because any 
of them may for all we know be on the right track but 
because it is in the conflict of opinion that we win knowl- 
edge and wisdom. However terrible the wounds suffered 
in that conflict, they are better than the barren peace of 
death that follows when all the combatants are slaughtered 
or bound hand and foot. 

The difficulty at present is that though this necessity 
for Toleration is a law of political science as well established 
as the law of gravitation, our rulers are never taught 
political science: on the contrary, they are taught in school 
that the master tolerates nothing that is disagreeable to 
him; that ruling is simply being master; and that the mas- 
ter’s method is the method of violent punishment. And 
our citizens, all school taught, are walking in the same 
darkness. As I write these lines the Home Secretary is 


Parents and Children Ivil 


explaining that a man who has been imprisoned for blas- 
phemy must not be released beeause his remarks were 
painful to the feelings of his pious fellow townsmen. Now 
it happens that this very Home Seeretary has driven 
many thousands of his fellow citizens almost beside them- 
selves by the erudity of his notions of government, and 
his simple inability to understand why he should not use 
and make laws to torment and subdue people who do not 
happen to agree with him. In a word, he is not a politician, 
but a grown-up sehoolboy who has at last got a cane in 
his hand. And as all the rest of us are in the same eondi- 
tion (exeept as to command of the eane) the only objection 
made to his proceedings takes the shape of clamorous 
demands that he should be eaned instead of being allowed 
to cane other people. 


The Sin of Athanasius 


It seems hopeless. Anarehists are tempted to preaeh a 
violent and implacable resistance to all law as the only 
remedy; and the result of that speedily is that people 
weleome any tyranny that will reseue them from chaos. 
But there is really no need to ehoose between anarchy 
and tyranny. A quite reasonable state of thiugs is prae- 
tieable if we proceed on human assumptions and not 
on academic ones. If adults will frankly give up their 
elaim to know better than children what the purposes of 
the Life Foree are, and treat the child as an experiment 
like themselves, and possibly a more sueeessful one, and 
at the same time relinquish their monstrous parental 
claims to personal private property in ehildren, the rest 
must be left to eommon sense. It is our attitude, our 
religion, that is wrong. A good beginning might be made 
by enaeting that any person dictating a pieee of conduct 
to a child or to anyone else as the will of God, or as ab- 
solutely right, should be dealt with as a blasphemer: as, 


wi Parents and Children 


indeed, guilty of the unpardonable sin against the Holy 
Ghost. If the penalty were death, it would rid us at once 
of that scourge of humanity, the amateur Pope. As an 
Irish Protestant, I raise the cry of No Popery with hered- 
itary zest. We are overrun with Popes. From curates 
and governesses, who may claim a sort of professional 
standing, to parents and uncles and nurserymaids and 
school teachers and wiseacres generally, there are scores 
of thousands of human insects groping through our dark- 
ness by the feeble phosphorescence of their own tails, 
yet ready at a moment’s notice to reveal the will of God 
on every possible subject; to explain how and why the 
universe was made (in my youth they added the exact 
date) and the circumstances under which it will cease to 
exist; to lay down precise rules of right and wrong con- 
duct; to discriminate infallibly between virtuous and vi- 
cious character; and all this with such certainty that they 
are prepared to visit all the rigors of the law, and all the 
ruinous penalties of social ostracism on people, however 
harmless their actions maybe who venture to laugh 
at their monstrous conceit or to pay their assumptions 
the extravagant compliment of criticizing them. As to 
children, who shall say what canings and birchings and 
terrifyings and threats of hell fire and impositions and 
humiliations and petty imprisonings and sendings to bed 
and standing in corners and the like they have suffered 
because their parents and guardians and teachers knew 
everything so much better than Socrates or Solon? 

It is this ignorant uppishness that does the mischief. 
A stranger on the planet might expect that its grotesque 
absurdity would provoke enough ridicule to cure it; but 
unfortunately quite the contrary happens. Just as our 
ill health delivers us into the hands of medical quacks and 
creates a passionate demand for impudent pretences that 
doctors can cure the diseases they themselves die of daily, 
so our ignorance and helplessness set us clamoring for 


Parents and Children lix 


spiritual and moral quacks who pretend that they can 
save our souls from their own damnation. Ifa doctor were 
to say to his patients, “I am familiar with your symp- 
toms, because I have seen other people in your condition; 
and [ will bring the very little knowledge we have to your 
treatment; but except in that very shallow senseI dont 
know what is the matter with you; and I cant undertake 
to cure you,” he would be a lost man professionally; and if 
a clergyman, on being called on to award a prize for good 
conduct in the village sehool, were to say, “I am afraid 
I cannot say who is the best-behaved child, because I 
really do not know what good conduct is; but I will gladly 
take the teacher’s word as to which child has caused least 
inconvenienee,” he would probably be unfrocked, if not 
excommunieated. And yet no honest and intellectually 
capable doctor or parson can say more. Clearly it would 
not be wise of the doctor to say it, because optimistic lies 
have such immense therapeutic value that a doetor who 
cannot tell them convincingly has mistaken his profession. 
And a clergyman who is not prepared to lay down the 
law dogmatically will not be of much use in a village 
school, though it behoves him all the more to be very 
eareful what law he lays down. But unless both the 
clergyman and the doctor are in the attitude expressed 
by these speeches they are not fit for their work. The 
man who believes that he has more| than a provisional 
hypothesis to go upon is a born fool. He may have to act 
vigorously on it. The world has no use for the Agnostie 
who wont believe anything beeause anything might be 
false, and wont deny anything because anything might 
be true. But there is a wide difference between saying, 
*“T believe this; and I am going to aet on it,” or, ““I dont 
believe it; and I wont act on it,” and saying, “‘It is true; 
and it is my duty and yours to act on it,” or, “It is false; 
and it is my duty and yours to refuse to act on it.’”’ The 
difference is as great as that between the Apostles’ Creed 


Ix Parents and Children 


and the Athanasian Creed. When you repeat the Apostles’ 
Creed you affirm that you believe certain things. There 
vou are clearly within your rights. When you repeat the 
Athanasian Creed, you affirm that certain things are so, 
and that anybody who doubts that they are so cannot be 
saved. And this is simply a piece of impudence on your 
part, as you know nothing about it except that as good 
men as you have never heard of your creed. The apostolic 
attitude is a desire to convert others to our beliefs for the 
sake of sympathy and light: the Athanasian attitude is a 
desire to murder people who dont agree with us. I am 
sufficient of an Athanasian to advocate a law for the speedy 
execution of all Athanasians, because they violate the 
fundamental proposition of my creed, which is, I repeat, 
that all living creatures are experiments. The precise 
formula for the Superman, ci-devant The Just Man Made 
Perfect, has not yet been discovered. Until it is, every 
birth is an experiment in the Great Research which 
is being conducted by the Life Force to discover that 
formula. 


The Experiment Experimenting 


And now all the modern schoolmaster abortionists will 
rise up beaming, and say, ““We quite agree. We regard 
every child in our school as a subject for experiment. We 
are always experimenting with them. We challenge the 
experimental test for our system. We are continually 
guided by our experience in our great work of moulding 
the character of our future citizens, etc. etc. ete.” I am 
sorry to seem irreconcilable; but it is the Life Force that 
has to make the experiment and not the schoolmaster; 
and the Life Force for the child’s purpose is in the child 
and not in the schoolmaster. The schoolmaster is another 
experiment; and a laboratory in which all the experiments 
began experimenting on one another would not produce 
intelligible results. I admit, however, that if my school- 


° 


Parents and Children Ix 


masters had treated me as an experiment of the Life 
Force: that is, if they had set me free to do as I liked sub- 
ject only to my political rights and theirs, they could not 
have watched the experiment very long, because the first 
result would have been a rapid movement on my part in 
the direction of the door, and my disappearance there- 
through. 

It may be worth inquiring where I should have gone 
to. I should say that practically every time I should 
have gone to a much more educational place. I should 
have gone into the country, or into the sea, or into the 
National Gallery, or to hear a band if there was one, or 
to any library where there were no schoolbooks. I should 
have read very dry and difficult books: for example, though 
nothing would have induced me to read the budget of 
stupid party lies that served as a text-book of history in 
school, I remember reading Robertson’s Charles V. and 
his history of Scotland from end to end most laboriously. 
Once, stung by the airs of a schoolfellow who alleged that 
he had read Locke On The Human Understanding, I at- 
tempted to read the Bible straight through, and actually 
got to the Pauline Epistles before I broke down in disgust 
at what seemed to me their inveterate crookedness of 
mind. If there had been a school where children were 
really free, I should have had to be driven out of it for 
the sake of my health by the teachers; for the children 
to whom a literary education can be of any use are in- 
satiable: they will read and study far more than is good 
for them. In fact the real difficulty 1s to prevent them 
from wasting their time by reading for the sake of reading 
and studying for the sake of studying, instead of taking 
some trouble to find out what they really like and are 
capable of doing some good at. Some silly person will 
probably interrupt me here with the remark that many 
children have no appetite for a literary education at all, 
and would never open a book if they were not forced to. 


Ixu Parents and Children 


I have known many such persons who have been forced 
to the point of obtaining University degrees. And for all 
the effect their literary exercises has left on them they 
might just as well have been put on the treadmill. In 
fact they are actually less literate than the treadmill 
would have left them; for they might by chance have 
picked up and dipped into a volume of Shakespear or a 
translation of Homer if they had not been driven to loathe 
every famous name in literature. J should probably know 
as much Latin as French, if Latin had not been made the 
excuse for my school imprisonment and degradation. 


Why We Loathe Learning and Love Sport 


If we are to discuss the importance of art, learning, 
and intellectual culture, the first thing we have to recog- 
nize is that we have very little of them at present; and 
that this little has not been produced by compulsory edu- 
eation: nay, that the scarcity is unnatural and has been 
produced by the violent exclusion of art and artists from 
schools. On the other hand we have quite a considerable 
degree of bodily culture: indeed there is a continual outery 
against the sacrifice of mental accomplishments to ath- 
letics. In other words a sacrifice of the professed object 
of compulsory education to the real object of voluntary 
education. It is assumed that this means that people 
prefer bodily to mental culture; but may it not mean that 
they prefer liberty and satisfaction to coercion and pri- 
vation. Why is it that people who have been taught 
Shakespear as a school subject loathe his plays and cannot 
by any means be persuaded ever to open his works after 
they escape from school, whereas there is still, 300 years 
after his death, a wide and steady sale for his works to 
people who read his plays as plays, and not as task work? 
If Shakespear, or for that matter, Newton and Leibnitz, 
are allowed to find their readers and students they will 


Parents and Children Ixi 


find them. If their works are annotated and paraphrased 
by dullards, and the annotations and paraphrases foreed 
on all young people by imprisonment and flogging and 
scolding, there will not be a single man of letters or higher 
mathematician the more in the country: on the contrary 
there will be less, as so many potential lovers of literature 
and mathematics will have been ineurably prejudiced 
against them. Everyone who is conversant with the class 
in which child imprisonment and compulsory schooling 
is carried out to the final extremity of the university de- 
gree knows that its scholastic culture is a sham; that it 
knows little about literature or art and a great deal about 
point-to-point races; and that the village cobbler, whio 
has never read a page of Plato, and is admittedly a dan- 
gerously ignorant man politically, is nevertheless a Soe- 
rates compared to the classically educated gentlemen who 
discuss polities in country houses at election time (and 
at no other time) after their day’s earnest and _ skilful 
shooting. Think of the years and years of weary torment 
the women of the piano-possessing class have been forced 
to spend over the keyboard, fingering scales. How many 
of them could be bribed to attend a pianoforte recital 
by a great player, though they will rise from sick beds 
rather than miss Ascot or Goodwood? 

Another familiar fact that teaches the same lesson is 
that many women who have voluntarily attained a high 
degree of culture cannot add up their own housekeeping 
books, though their education in simple arithmetic was 
compulsory, whereas their higher education has been 
wholly voluntary. Everywhere we find the same result. 
The imprisonment, the beating, the taming and laming, the 
breaking of young spirits, the arrest of development, the 
atrophy of all inhibitive power except the power of fear, 
are real: the edueation is sham. Those who have been 
taught most know least. 


lxiv Parents and Children 


Antichrist 


Among the worst effects of the unnatural segregation of 
children in schools and the equally unnatural constant as- 
sociation of them with adults in the family is the utter 
defeat of the vital element in Christianity. Christ stands 
in the world for that intuition of the highest humanity 
that we, being members one of another, must not com- 
plain, must not scold, must not strike, nor revile nor per- 
secute nor revenge nor punish. Now family life and school 
life are, as far as the moral training of children is concerned, 
nothing but the deliberate inculcation of a routine of com- 
plaint, scolding, punishment, persecution, and revenge as 
the natural and only possible way of dealing with evil or 
inconvenience. ‘‘Aint nobody to be whopped for this 
here?”’ exclaimed Sam Weller when he saw his employer’s 
name written up on a stage coach, and conceived the phe- 
nomenon as an insult which reflected on himself. This 
exclamation of Sam Weller is at once the negation of 
Christianity and the beginning and the end of current 
morality; and so it will remain as long as the family and 
the school persist as we know them: that is, as long as the 
rights of children are so utterly denied that nobody will 
even take the trouble to ascertain what they are, and com- 
ing of age is like the turning of a convici into the street 
after twenty-oue years penal servitude. Indeed it is worse; 
for the convict may have learnt before his conviction how 
to live in freedom and may remember how to set about it, 
however lamed his powers of freedom may have become 
through disuse; but the child knows no other way of life 
but the slave’s way. Born free, as Rousseau says, he has 
been laid hands on by slaves from the moment of his birth 
and brought up as a slave. How is he, when he is at last 
set free, to be anything else than the slave he actually 
is, clamoring for war, for the lash, for police, prisons, and 
scaffolds in a wild panie of delusion that without these 


Parents and Children Ixv 


things he is lost. The grown-up Englishman is to the end 
of his days a badly brought-up child, beyond belief quar- 
relsome, petulant, selfish, destructive, and cowardly: 
afraid that the Germans will come and enslave him; that 
the burglar will come and rob him; that the bicyele or 
motor car will run over him; that the smallpox will attack 
him; and that the devil will run away with him and empty 
him out like a sack of coals on a blazing fire unless his 
nurse or his parents or his schoolmaster or his bishop or 
his judge or his army or his navy will do something to 
frighten these bad things away. And this Englishman, 
without the moral courage of a louse, will risk his neck for 
fun fifty times every winter in the hunting field, and at 
Badajos sieges and the like will ram his head into a hole 
bristling with sword blades rather than be beaten in the 
one department in which he has been brought up to con- 
sult his own honor. As a Sportsman (and war is funda- 
mentally the sport of hunting and fighting the most 
dangerous of the beasts of prey) he feels free. He will 
tell you himself that the true sportsman 1s never asnob, a 
coward, a duffer, a cheat, a thief, or a liar. Curious, is it 
not, that he has not the same confidence in other sorts of 
man? 

And even sport is losing its freedom. Soon everybody 
will be schooled, mentally and physically, from the eradle 
to the end of the term of adult compulsory military serv- 
ice, and finally of compulsory civil service lasting until 
the age of superannuation. Always more schooling, more 
compulsion. We are to be cured by an excess of the dose 
that has poisoned us. Satan is to cast out Satan. 


Under the Whip 


Clearly this will not do. We must reconcile education 
with liberty. We must find out some means of making 
men workers and, if need be, warriors, without making 


Ixvi Parents and Children 


them slaves. We must cultivate the noble virtues that 
have their root in pride. Now no schoolmaster will teach 
these any more than a prison governor will teach his pris- 
oners how to mutiny and escape. Self-preservation forces 
him to break the spirit that revolts against him, and to 
inculcate submission, even to obscene assault, as a duty. 
A bishop once had the hardihood to say that he would 
rather see England free than England sober. Nobody has 
yet dared to say that he would rather see an England of 
ignoramuses than an England of cowards and slaves. 
And if anyone did, it would be necessary to point out that 
the antithesis is not a practical one, as we have got at 
present an England of ignoramuses who are also cowards 
and slaves, and extremely proud of it at that, because in 
school they are taught to submit, with what they ridicu- 
lously call Oriental fatalism (as if any Oriental has ever 
submitted more helplessly and sheepishly to robbery and 
oppression than we Occidentals do), to be driven day after 
day into compounds and set to the tasks they loathe by 
the men they hate and fear, as if this were the inevitable 
destiny of mankind. And naturally, when they grow up, 
they helplessly exchange the prison of the school for the 
prison of the mine or the workshop or the office, and 
drudge along stupidly and miserably, with just enough 
gregarious instinct to turn furiously on any intelligent 
person who proposes a change. It would be quite easy 
to make England a paradise, according to our present 
ideas, in a few years. There is no mystery about it: the 
way has been pointed out over and over again. The 
difficulty is not the way but the will. And we have no 
will because the first thing done with us in childhood was 
to break our will. Can anything be more disgusting than 
the spectacle of a nation reading the biography of Glad- 
stone and gloating over the account of how he was flogged 
at Eton, two of his schoolfellows being compelled to hold 
him down whilst he was flogged. Not long ago a public 


Parents and Children Ixvil 


body in England had to deal with the case of a school- 
master who, conceiving himself insulted by the smoking 
of a cigaret against his orders by a pupil eighteen years 
old, proposed to flog him publicly as a satisfaction to what 
he called his honor and authority. I had intended to give 
the particulars of this case, but find the drudgery of re- 
peating such stuff too sickening, and the effect unjust to 
a man who was doing only what others all over the coun- 
try were doing as part of the established routine of what 
is called education. The astounding part of it was the 
manner in which the person to whom this outrage on 
decency seemed quite proper and natural claimed to be 
a functionary of high character, and had his claim al- 
lowed. In Japan he would hardly have been allowed the 
privilege of committing suicide. What is to be said of a 
profession in which such obscenities are made points of 
honor, or of institutions in which they are an accepted 
part of the daily routine? Wholesome people would not 
argue about the taste of such nastinesses: they would spit 
them out; but we are tainted with flagellomania from 
our childhood. When will we realize that the fact that 
we can become accustomed to anything, however dis- 
gusting at first, makes it necessary for us to examine 
carefully everything we have become accustomed to? 
Before motor cars became common, necessity had accus- 
tomed us to a foulness in our streets which would have 
horrified us had the street been our drawing-room carpet. 
Before long we shall be as particular about our streets as 
we now are about our carpets; and their condition in the 
nineteenth century will become as forgotten and incred- 
ible as the condition of the corridors of palaces and the 
courts of castles was as late as the eighteenth century. 
This foulness, we can plead, was imposed on us as a ne- 
cessity by the use of horses and of huge retinues; but 
flogging has never been so imposed: it has always been a 
vice, craved for on any pretext by those depraved by it. 


Ixvul Parents and Children 


Boys were flogged when criminals were hanged, to impress 
the awful warning on them. Boys were flogged at bound- 
aries, to impress the boundaries on their memory. Other 
methods and other punishments were always available: 
the choice of this one betrayed the sensual impulse which 
makes the practice an abomination. But when its vicious- 
ness made it customary, it was practised and tolerated 
on all hands by people who were innocent of anything 
worse than stupidity, ill temper, and inability to discover 
other methods of maintaining order than those they had 
always seen practised and approved of. From children 
and animals it extended to slaves and criminals. In the 
days of Moses it was limited to 39 lashes. In the 
early nineteenth century it had become an open madness: 
soldiers were sentenced to a thousand lashes for trifling 
offences, with the result (among others less_mentionable) 
that the Iron Duke of Wellington complained that it was 
impossible to get an order obeyed in the British army 
except in two or three crack regiments. Such frantic 
excesses of this disgusting neurosis provoked a reaction 
against it; but the clamor for it by depraved persons never 
ceased, and was tolerated by a nation trained to it from 
childhood in the schools until last year (1913), when in 
what must be described as a paroxysm of sexual excite- 
ment provoked by the agitation concerning the- White 
Siave Traffic (the purely commercial nature of which I 
was prevented from exposing on the stage by the Censor- 
ship twenty years ago) the Government yielded to an 
outcry for flagellation led by the Archbishop of Canter- 
bury, and passed an Act under which a judge can sentence 
a man to be flogged to the utmost extremity with any 
instrument usable for such a purpose that he cares to 
prescribe. Such an Act is not a legislative phenomenon 
but a psychopathic one. Its effect on the White Slave 
Traffic was, of course, to distract public attention from 
its real cause and from the people who really profit by it 


Parents and Children Ixix 


to imaginary “foreign scoundrels,”’ and to secure a monop- 
oly of its organization for women. 

And all this evil is made possible by the schoolmaster 
with his cane and birch, by the parents getting rid as best 
they can of the nuisance of children making noise and 
mischief in the house, and by the denial to children of the 
elementary rights of human beings. 

The first man who enslaved and “broke in”’ an animal 
with a whip would have invented the explosion engine 
instead could he have foreseen the curse he was laying on 
his race. For men and women learnt thereby to enslave 
and break in their children by the same means. ‘These 
children, grown up, knew no other methods of training. 
Finally the evil that was done for gain by the greedy was 
refined on and done for pleasure by the lustful. Flogging 
has become a pleasure purchasable in our streets, and 
inhibition a grown-up habit that children play at. “Go 
and see what baby is doing; and tell him he mustnt”’ Is 
the last word of the nursery; and the grimmest aspect of 
it is that it was first formulated by a comic paper as a 
capital joke. 


Technical Instruction 


Technical instruction tempts to violence (as a short 
eut) more than liberal education. The sailor in Mr 
Rudyard Kipling’s Captains Courageous, teaching the 
boy the names of the ship’s tackle with a rope’s end, does 
not disgust us as our schoolmasters do, especially as the 
boy was a spoiled boy. But an unspoiled boy would not 
have necded that drastic medicine. Technical training 
may be as tedious as learning to skate or to play the piano 
or violin; but it is the price one must pay to achieve cer- 
tain desirable results or necessary ends. It 1s a monstrous 
thing to force a child to learn Latin or Greek or mathe- 
matics on the ground that they are an indispensable gym- 
nastic for the mental powers. It would be monstrous 


Ixx Parents and Children 


even if it were true; for there is no labor that might not 
be imposed on a child or an adult on the same pretext; 
but as a glance at the average products of our public 
school and university education shews that it is not true, 
it need not trouble us. But it is a fact that ignorance of 
Latin and Greek and mathematics closes certain careers 
to men (I do not mean artificial, unnecessary, noxious 
careers like those of the commercial schoolmaster). Lan- 
guages, even dead ones, have their uses; and, as it seems 
to many of us, mathematics have their uses. They will 
always be learned by people who want to learn them; 
and people will always want to learn them as long as they 
are of any importance in life: indeed the want will survive 
their importance: superstition is nowhere stronger than 
in the field of obsolete acquirements. And they will never 
be learnt fruitfully by people who do not want to learn 
them either for their own sake or for use in necessary work. 
There is no harder schoolmaster than experience; and 
yet experience fails to teach where there is no desire to 
learn. 

Still, one must not begin to apply this generalization 
too early. And this brings me to an important factor in 
the case: the factor of evolution. 


Docility and Dependence 


If anyone, impressed by my view that the rights of a 
child are precisely those of an adult, proceeds to treat a 
child as if it were an adult, he (or she) will find that though 
the plan will work much better at some points than the 
usual plan, at others it will not work at all; and this dis- 
covery may provoke him to turn back from the whole 
conception of children’s rights with a jest at the expense 
of bachelors’ and old maids’ children. In dealing with 
children what is needed is not logic but sense. There is 
no logical reason why young persons should be allowed 


Parents and Children Ixx1 


greater control of their property the day after they are 
twenty-one than the day before it. There is no logical 
reason why I, who strongly object to an adult standing 
over a boy of ten with a Latin grammar, and saying, 
“you must learn this, whether you want to or not,” 
should nevertheless be quite prepared to stand over a 
boy of five with the multiplication table or a copy book 
or a code of elementary good manners, and practice on 
his docility to make him learn them. And there is no log- 
ical reason why I should do for a child a great many little 
offices, some of them troublesome and disagreeable, which 
I should not do for a boy twice its age, or support a boy 
or girl when I would unhesitatingly throw an adult on 
his own resources. But there are practical reasons, and 
sensible reasons, and affectionate reasons for all these 
illogicalities. Children do not want to be treated alto- 
gether as adults: such treatment terrifies them and over- 
burdens them with responsibility. In truth, very few 
adults care to be called on for independence and origi- 
nality: they also are bewildered and terrified in the absence 
of precedents and precepts and commandments; but 
modern Democracy allows them a sanctioning and can- 
cellmg power if they are capable of using it, whieh ehil- 
dren are not. To treat a ehild wholly as an adult would 
be to mock and destroy it. Infantile docility and juvenile 
dependenee are, like death, a product of Natural Selection; 
and though there is no viler crime than to abuse them, 
vet there is no greater cruelty than to ignore them. I 
have complained suffieiently of what I suffered through 
the process of assault, imprisonment, and compulsory les- 
sons that taught me nothing, which are called my sehool- 
ing. But I could say a good deal also about the things 
I was not taught and should have been taught, not to 
mention the things I was allowed to do which I should 
not have been allowed to do. I have no recollection of 
being taught to read or write; so I presume I was born with 


Ixxil Parents and Children 


both faculties; but many people seem to have bitter recol- 
lections of being forced reluctantly to acquire them. And 
though I have the uttermost contempt for a teacher so 
ill mannered and incompetent as to be unable to make a 
child learn to read and write without also making it ery, 
still I am prepared to admit that I had rather have been 
compelled to learn to read and write with tears by an 
incompetent and ill mannered person than left in igno- 
rance. Reading, writing, and enough arithmetic to use 
money honestly and accurately, together with the rudi- 
ments of law and order, become necessary conditions of a 
child’s liberty before it can appreciate the importance of 
its liberty, or foresee that these accomplishments are 
worth acquiring. Nature has provided for this by evolv- 
ing the instinct of docility. Children are very docile: 
they have a sound intuition that they must do what they 
are told or perish. And adults have an intuition, equally 
sound, that they must take advantage of this docility to 
teach children how to live properly or the children will 
not survive. The difficulty is to know where to stop. To 
illustrate this, let us consider the main danger of childish 
docility and parental officiousness. 


The Abuse of Docility 


Docility may survive as a lazy habit long after it has 
ceased to be a beneficial instinct. If you catch a child 
when it is young enough to be instinctively docile, and 
keep it in a condition of unremitted tutelage under the 
nurserymaid, the governess, the preparatory school, the 
secondary school, and the university, until it is an adult, 
you will produce, not a self-reliant, free, fully matured 
human being, but a grown-up schoolboy or schoolgirl, 
capable of nothing in the way of original or independent 
action except outbursts of naughtiness in the women and 
blackguardism in the men. That is exactly what we get 


Parents and Children Ixxull 


at present in our rich and consequently governing classes: 
they pass from Juvenility to senility without ever touching 
maturity except in body. The classes which cannot afford 
this sustained tutelage are notably more self-reliant and 
grown-up: an Office boy of fifteen is often more of a man 
than a university student of twenty. Unfortunately this 
.precocity is disabled by poverty, ignorance, narrowness, 
and a hideous power of living without art or love or beauty 
and being rather proud of it. The poor never escape from 
servitude: their docility is preserved by their slavery. 
And so all become the prey of the greedy, the selfish, the 
domineering, the unscrupulous, the predatory. If here 
and there an individual refuses to be docile, ten docile 
persons will beat him or lock him up or shoot him or hang 
him at the bidding of his oppressors and their own. The 
crux of the whole difficulty about parents, schoolmasters, 
priests, absolute monarchs, and despots of every sort, is 
the tendency to abuse natural docility. A nation should 
always be healthily rebellious; but the king or prime min- 
ister has yet to be found who will make trouble by culti- 
vating that side of the national spirit. A child should 
begin to assert itself early, and shift for itself more and 
more not only in washing and dressing itself, but in opin- 
ions and conduct; yet as nothing is so exasperating and 
so unlovable as an uppish child, it is useless to expect par- 
ents and schoolmasters to inculeate this uppishness. Such 
unamiable precepts as Always contradict an authoritative 
statement, Always return a blow, Never lose a chauce of 
a good fight, When you are scolded for a mistake ask thie 
person who scolds you whether he or she supposes you 
did it on purpose, and follow the question with a blow 
or an insult or some other unmistakable expression of 
resentment, Remember that the progress of the world 
depends on your knowing better than your elders, are 
just as important as those of The Sermon on the Mount; 
but no one has yet seen them written up in letters of gold 


Ixxiv Parents and Children 


in a schoolroom or nursery. The child is taught to be 
kind, to be respectful, to be quiet, not to answer back, to 
be truthful when its elders want to find out anything from 
it, to lie when the truth would shock or hurt its elders, to 
be above all things obedient, and to be seen and not heard. 
Here we have two sets of precepts, each warranted to spoil 
a child hopelessly if the other be omitted. Unfortunately 
we do not allow fair play between them. The rebellious, 
intractable, aggressive, selfish set provoke a corrective 
resistance, and do not pretend to high moral or religious 
sanctions; and they are never urged by grown-up people 
on young people. They are therefore more in danger of 
neglect or suppression than the other set, which have all 
the adults, all the laws, all the religions on their side. 
How is the child to be secured its due share of both bodies 
of doctrine? 


The Schoolboy and the Homeboy 


In practice what happens is that parents notice that 
boys brought up at home become mollycoddles, or prigs, 
or duffers, unable to take care of themselves. They see 
that boys should learn to rough it a little and to mix 
with children of their own age. This is natural enough. 
When you have preached at and punished a boy until he 
is a moral cripple, you are as much hampered by him as 
by a physical cripple; and as you do not intend to have 
him on your hands all your life, and are generally rather 
impatient for the day when he will earn his own living 
and leave you to attend to yourself, you sooner or later 
begin to talk to him about the need for self-reliance, learn- 
ing to think, and so forth, with the result that your vic- 
tim, bewildered by your inconsistency, concludes that 
there is no use trying to please you, and falls into an 
attitude of sulky resentment. Which is an additional 
inducement to pack him off to school. 


Parents and Children Ixxv 


In school, he finds himself in a dual world, under two 
dispensations. There is the world of the boys, where the 
point of honor is to be untameable, always ready to fight, 
ruthless in taking the conceit out of anyone who ventures 
to give himself airs of superior knowledge or taste, and 
generally to take Lucifer for one’s model. And there is 
the world of the masters, the world of discipline, submis- 
sion, diligence, obedience, and continual and shameless 
assumption of moral and intellectual authority. Thus 
the schoolboy hears both sides, and is so far better off 
than the homebred boy who hears only one. But the 
two sides are not fairly presented. They are presented as 
good and evil, as vice and virtue, as villainy and heroism. 
The boy feels mean and cowardly when he obeys, and self- 
ish and rascally when he disobeys. He looses his moral 
courage just as he comes to hate books and languages. 
In the end, John Ruskin, tied so close to his mother’s 
apron-string that he did not escape even when he went to 
Oxford, and John Stuart Mill, whose father ought to have 
been prosecuted for laying his son’s childhood waste with 
lessons, were superior, as products of training, to our 
schoolboys. They were very conspicuously superior in 
moral courage; and though they did not distinguish them- 
selves at cricket and football, they had quite as much 
physical hardihood as any civilized man needs. But it is 
to be observed that Ruskin’s parents were wise people 
who gave John a full share in their own life, and put up 
with his presence both at home and abroad when they 
must sometimes have been very weary of him; and Mill, 
as it happens, was deliberately educated to challenge all 
the most sacred institutions of his country. The house- 
holds they were brought up in were no more average 
households than a Montessori school is an average school. 


Ixxvl Parents and Children 


The Comings of Age of Children 


All this inculcated adult docility, which wrecks every 
civilization as it is wrecking ours, is inhuman and un- 
natural. We must reconsider our institution of the Com- 
ing of Age, which is too late for some purposes, and too 
early for others. There should be a series of Coming of 
Ages for every individual. The mammals have their first 
coming of age when they are weaned; and it is noteworthy 
that this rather cruel and selfish operation on the part of 
the parent has to be performed resolutely, with claws and 
teeth; for your little mammal does not want to be weaned, 
and yields only to a pretty rough assertion of the right 
of the parent to be relieved of the child as soon as the 
child is old enough to bear the separation. The same 
thing occurs with children: they hang on to the mother’s 
apron-string and the father’s coat tails as long as they 
can, often baffling those sensitive parents who know that 
children should think for themselves and fend for them- 
selves, but are too kind to throw them on their own re- 
sources with the ferocity of the domestic cat. The child 
should have its first coming of age when it is weaned, 
another when it can talk, another when it can walk, 
another when it can dress itself without assistance; and 
when it can read, write, count money, and pass an ex- 
amination in going a simple errand involving a purchase 
and a journey by rail or other public method of locomotion, 
it should have quite a majority. At present the children 
of laborers are soon mobile and able to shift for them- 
selves, whereas it is possible to find grown-up women in 
the rich classes who are actually afraid to take a walk in 
the streets unattended and unprotected. It is true that 
this is a superstition from the time when a retinue was 
part of the state of persons of quality, and the unattended 
person was supposed to be a common persen of no quality, 
earning a living; but this has now become so absurd that 


Parents and Children Ixxvil 


children and young women are no longer told why they 
are forbidden to go about alone, and have to be persuaded 
that the streets are dangerous places, which of course 
they are; but people who are not educated to live danger- 
ously have only half a life, and are more likely to die mis- 
erably after all than those who have taken all the common 
risks of freedom from their childhood onward as matters 
of course. 


The Conflict of Wills 


The world wags in spite of its schools and its families 
because both schools and families are mostly very largely 
anarchic: parents and schoolmasters are good-natured or 
weak or lazy; and children are docile and affectionate and 
very shortwinded in their fits of naughtiness; and so most 
families stummock along and muddle through until the 
children cease to be children. In the few cases when the 
parties are energetic and determined, the child is crushed 
or the parent is reduced to a cipher, as the case may be. 
When the opposed forces are neither of them strong enough 
to annihilate the other, there is serious trouble: that is 
how we get those feuds between parent and ehild whieh 
recur to our memory so ironically when we hear people 
sentimentalizing about natural affection. We even get 
tragedies; for there is nothing so tragic to contemplate or 
so devastating to suffer as the oppression of will without 
conscience; and the whole tendency of our family and 
school system is to set the will of the parent and the sehool 
despot above conscience as something that must be de- 
ferred to abjectly and absolutely for its own sake. 

The strongest, fiercest force in nature is human will. 
It is the highest organization we know of the will that has 
created the whole universe. Now all honest civilization, 
religion, law, and convention is an attempt to keep this 
force within beneficent bounds. What corrupts civiliza- 
tion, religion, law, and convention (and they are at pres- 


Ixxvill Parents and Children 


ent pretty nearly as corrupt as they dare) is the constant 
attempts made by the wills of individuals and classes to 
thwart the wills and enslave the powers of other individuals 
and classes. The powers of the parent and the school- 
master, and of their public analogues the lawgiver and 
the judge, become instruments of tyranny in the hands 
of those who are too narrow-minded to understand law and 
exercise judgment; and in their hands (with us they mostly 
fall into such hands) law becomes tyranny. And what is 
a tyrant? Quite simply a person who says to another 
person, young or old, “ You shall do as I tell you; you shall 
make what I want; you shall profess my creed; you shall 
have no will of your own; and your powers shall be at the 
disposal of my will.” It has come to this at last: that the 
phrase “‘she has a will of her own,” or “She has a will of 
his own”? has come to denote a person of exceptional 
obstinacy and self-assertion. And even persons of good 
natural disposition, if brought up to expect such defer- 
ence, are roused to unreasoning fury, and sometimes to 
the commission of atrocious crimes, by the slightest chal- 
lenge to their authority. Thus a laborer may be dirty, 
drunken, untruthful, slothful, untrustworthy in every 
way without exhausting the indulgence of the country 
house. But let him dare to be “disrespectful” and he is 
a lost man, though he be the cleanest, soberest, most 
diligent, most veracious, most trustworthy man in the 
county. Dickens’s instinct for detecting social cankers 
never served him better than when he shewed us Mrs Heep 
teaching her son to “‘be umble,”’ knowing that if he carried 
out that precept he might be pretty well anything else 
he liked. The maintenance of deference to our wills be- 
comes a mania which will carry the best of us to any ex- 
tremity. We will allow a village of Egyptian fellaheen or 
Indian tribesmen to live the lowest life they please among 
themselves without molestation; but let one of them slay 
an Englishman or even strike him on the strongest provo- 


Parents and Children Ixx1x 


cation, and straightway we go stark mad, burning and 
destroying, shooting and shelling, flogging and hanging, 
if only such survivors as we may leave are thoroughly 
cowed in the presence of a man with a white face. In 
the committee room of a local council or city corporation, 
the humblest employees of the committee find defenders 
if they complain of harsh treatment. Gratuities are voted, 
indulgences and holidays are pleaded for, delinquencies are 
excused in the most sentimental manner provided only 
the employee, however patent a hypocrite or incorrigible 
a slacker, is hatin hand. But let the most obvious measure 
of justice be demanded by the secretary of a Trade Union 
in terms which omit all expressions of subservience, and 
it is with the greatest difficulty that the cooler-headed 
ean defeat angry motions that the letter be thrown into 
the waste paper basket and the committee proceed to 
the next business. 


The Demagogue’s Opportunity 


And the employee has in him the same fierce impulse 
to impose his will without respect for the will of others. 
Democracy is in practice nothing but a device for cajoling 
from him the vote he refuses to arbitrary authority. He 
will not vote for Coriolanus; but when an experienced 
demagogue comes along and says, “‘Sir: you are the dic- 
tator: the voice of the people is the voice of God; and I 
am only your very humble servant,’ he says at once, 
“All right: tell me what to dictate,”’ and is presently en- 
slaved more effectually with his own silly consent than 
Coriolanus would ever have enslaved him without asking 
his leave. And the trick by which the demagogue defeats 
Coriolanus is played on him in his turn by his inferiors. 
Everywhere we sce the cunning succeeding in the world 
by secking a rich or powerful master and practising on his 
lust for subservience. The political adventurer who gets 


Ixxx Parents and Children 


into parliament by offering himself to the poor voter, 
not as his representative but as his will-less soulless “‘del- 
egate,”’ is himself the dupe of a clever wife who repudiates 
Votes for Women, knowing well that whilst the man is 
master, the man’s mistress will rule. Uriah Heep may 
be a crawling creature; but his crawling takes him upstairs. 

Thus does the selfishness of the will turn on itself, and 
obtain by flattery what it cannot seize by open force. 
Democracy becomes the latest trick of tyranny: “‘woman- 
liness’’ becomes the latest wile of prostitution. 

Between parent and child the same conflict wages and 
the same destruction of character ensues. Parents set 
themselves to bend the will of their children to their own 
—to break their stubborn spirit, as they call it—with the 
ruthlessness of Grand Inguisitors. Cunning, unscrupu- 
louschildren learn all the arts of the sneak in circumventing 
tyranny: children of better character are cruelly distressed 
and more or less lamed for life by it. 


Our Quarrelsomeness 


As between adults, we find a general quarrelsomeness 
which makes political reform as impossible to most Eng- 
lishmen as to hogs. Certain sections of the nation get 
cured of this disability. University men, sailors, and pol- 
iticians are comparatively free from it, because the com- 
munal life of the University, the fact that in a ship a man 
must either learn to consider others or else go overboard 
or into irons, and the habit of working on committees 
and ceasing to expect more of one’s own way than is in- 
cluded in the greatest common measure of the committee, 
educate the will socially. But no one who has ever had 
to guide a committee of ordinary private Englishmen 
through their first attempts at collective action, in com- 
mittee or otherwise, can retain any illusions as to the ap- 
palling effects on our national manners and character of 


Parents and Children Ixxx] 


the organization of the home and the school as petty tyr- 
annies, and the absence of all teaching of self-respect and 
training in self-assertion. Bulhed and ordered about, the 
Englishman obeys like a sheep, evades like a knave, or 
tries to murder his oppressor. Merely criticized or opposed 
in committee, or invited to consider anybody’s views but 
his own, he feels personally insulted and wants to resign 
or leave the room unless he is apologized to. And his 
panic and bewilderment when he sees that the older hands 
at the work have no patience with him and do not intend 
to treat him as infallible, are pitiable as far as they are 
anything but ludicrous. That is what comes of not being 
taught to consider other people’s wills, and left to submit 
to them or to over-ride them as if they were the winds and 
the weather. Such a state of mind is incompatible not 
only with the democratic introduction of Ingh civilization, 
but with the comprehension and maintenance of such 
civilized institutions as have been introduced by benevo- 
Jent and intelligent despots and aristocrats. 


We Must Reform Society before we can 
Reform Ourselves 


When we come to the positive problem of what to do 
with children if we are to give up the established plan, 
we find the difficulties so great that we begin to under- 
stand why so many people who detest the system and 
look back with loathing on their own schooldays, must 
helplessly send their children to the very schools they 
themselves were sent to, because there is no alternative 
except abandoning the children to undisciplined vaga- 
bondism. Man in society must do as everybody else does 
in his class: only fools and romantic novices imagine that 
freedom is a mere matter of the readiness of the individual 
to snap lis fingers at convention. It is true that most 


Ixxxil Parents and Children 


of us live in a condition of quite unnecessary inhibition, 
wearing ugly and uncomfortable clothes, making ourselves 
and other people miserable by the heathen horrors of 
mourning, staying away from the theatre because we 
cannot afford the stalls and are ashamed to go to the 
pit, and in dozens of other ways enslaving ourselves when 
there are comfortable alternatives open to us without 
any real drawbacks. ‘The contemplation of these petty 
slaveries, and of the triumphant ease with which sensible 
people throw them off, creates an impression that if we 
only take Johnson’s advice to free our minds from cant, 
we can achieve freedom. But if we all freed our minds 
from cant we should find that for the most part we should 
have to go on doing the necessary work of the world ex- 
actly as we did it before until we organized new and free 
methods of doing it. Many people believed in secondary 
co-education (boys and girls taught together) before 
schools like Bedales were founded: indeed the practice 
was common enough in elementary schools and in Scot- 
land; but their belief did not help them until Bedales and 
St George’s were organized; and there are still not nearly 
enough co-educational schools in existence to accommo- 
date all the children of the parents who believe in co-edu- 
cation up to university age, even if they could always 
afford the fees of these exceptional schools. It may be 
edifying to tell a duke that our public schools are all wrong 
in their constitution aud methods, or a costermonger that 
children should be treated as in Gocthe’s Wilhelm Meister 
instead of as they are treated at the elementary school at 
the corner of his street; but what are the duke and the 
coster to do? Neither of them has any effective choice 
in the matter: their children must either go to the schools 
that are, or to no school at all. And as the duke thinks 
with reason that his son will be a lout or a milksop or a 
prig if he does not go to school, and the coster knows that 
his son will become an illiterate hooligan if he is left te 


Parents and Children Ixxxlll 


the streets, there is no real alternative for cither of them. 
Child life must be socially organized: no parent, rich or 
poor, can choose institutions that do not exist; and the 
private enterprise of individual schoolmasters appealing 
to a group of well-to-do parents, though it may shew what 
ean be done by enthusiasts with new methods, cannot 
touch the mass of our children. For the average parent 
or child nothing is really available except the established 
practice; and this is what makes it so important that the 
established practice should be a sound one, and so useless 
for clever individuals to disparage it unless they can organ- 
ize an alternative practice and make it, too, general. 


The Purswt of Manners 


If you cross-examine the duke and the coster, you will 
find that they are not concerned for the scholastic attain- 
ments of their children. Ask the duke whether he could 
pass the standard examination of twelve-year-old children 
in elementary schools, and he will admit, with an entirely 
placid smile, that he would almost certainly be ignomin- 
iously plucked. And he is so little ashamed of or dis- 
advantaged by his condition that he is not prepared to 
spend an hour in remedying it. The coster may resent 
the inquiry instead of being amused by it; but his answer, 
if true, will be the same. What they both want for their 
children is the communal training, the apprenticeship to 
society, the lessons in holding one’s own among people of 
all sorts with whom once is not, as in the home, on privileged 
terms. These can be acquired only by “mixing with the 
world,” no matter how wicked the world is. No parent 
cares twopence whether his children can write Latin 
hexameters or repeat the dates of the accession of all the 
English monarchs since the Conqueror; but all parents 
are earnestly anxious about the manners of their children. 
Better Claude Duval than Kaspar Hauser. Laborers who 


Ixxxiv Parents and Children 


are contemptuously anti-clerical in their opinions will send 
their daughters to the convent school because the nuns 
teach them some sort of gentleness of speech and behavior. 
And peers who tell you that our public schools are rotten 
through and through, and that our Universities ought to 
be razed to the foundations, send their sons to Eton and 
Oxford, Harrow and Cambridge, not only because there 
is nothing else to be done, but because these places, though 
they turn out blackguards and ignoramuses and boobies 
galore, turn them out with the habits and manners of the 
society they belong to. Bad as those manners are in 
many respects, they are better than no manners at all. 
And no individual or family can possibly teach them. 
They can be acquired only by living in an organized com- 
munity in which they are traditional. 

Thus we see that there are reasons for the segregation 
of clildren even in families where the great reason: 
namely, that children are nuisances to adults, does not 
press very hardly, as, for instance, in the houses of the 
very poor, who can send their children to play in the 
streets, or the houses of the very rich, which are so large 
that the children’s quarters can be kept out of the parents’ 
way like the servants’ quarters. 


Not too much Wind on the Heath, Brother 


What, then, is to be done? For the present, unfortu- 
nately, htthe except propagating the conception of Chil- 
dren’s Rights. Only the achievement of economic equality 
through Socialism can make it possible to deal thoroughly 
with the question from the point of view of the total 
interest of the community, which must always consist 
of grown-up children. Yet economic cquality, like all 
simple and obvious arrangements, seems impossible to 
people brought up as children are now. Still, something 
can be done even within class limits. Large communities 


Parents and Children Ixxxv 


of children of the same class are possible today; and 
voluntary organization of outdoor life for children has 
already begun in Boy Scouting and excursions of one 
kind or another. The discovery that anything, even school 
life, is better for the child than home life, will become an 
over-ridden hobby; and we shall presently be told by our 
faddists that anything, even camp life, is better than school 
life. Some blundering beginnings of this are already per- 
ceptible. There is a movement for making our British 
children into priggish little barefooted vagabonds, all 
talking like that born fool George Borrow, and supposed 
to be splendidly healthy because they would dic if they 
slept in rooms with the windows shut, or perhaps even 
with a roof over their heads. Still, this is a fairly healthy 
folly; and it may do something to establish Mr Harold 
Cox’s claim of a Right to Roam as the basis of a much 
needed law compelling proprietors of land to provide 
plenty of gates in their fences, and to leave them unlocked 
when there are no growing crops to be damaged nor bulls 
to be encountered, instead of, as at present, imprisoning 
the human race in dusty or muddy thoroughfares between 
walls of barbed wire. 

The reaetion against vagabondage will come from the 
children themselves. For them freedom will not mean the 
expensive kind of savagery now called “‘the simple life.” 
Their natural disgust with the visions of cockney book 
fanciers blowing themselves out with “‘the wind on the 
heath, brother,’ and of anarchists who are either too 
weak to understand that men are strong and free in 
proportion to the social pressure they can stand and the 
complexity of the obligations they are prepared to under- 
take, or too strong to realize that what is freedom to them 
may be terror and bewilderment to others, will drive them 
back to the home and the school if these have meanwhile 
learned the lesson that children are independent human 
beings and have rights. 


Ixxxvi Parents and Children 


Wanted : a Child’s Magna Charta 


Whether we shall presently be discussing a Juvenile 
Magna Charta or Declaration of Rights by way of in- 
cluding children in the Constitution is a question on which 
I leave others to speculate. But if it could once be estab- 
lished that a child has an adult’s Right of Egress from 
uncomfortable places and unpleasant company, and there 
were children’s lawyers to sue pedagogues and others for 
assault and imprisonment, there would be an amazing 
change in the behavior of schoolmasters, the quality of 
school books, and the amenities of school life. That 
Consciousness of Consent which, even in its present de- 
lusive form, has enabled Democracy to oust tyrannical 
systems in spite of all its vulgarities and stupidities and 
rancors and ineptitudes and ignorances, would operate 
as powerfully among children as it does now among 
grown-ups. No doubt the pedagogue would promptly 
turn demagogue, and woo his scholars by all the arts of 
demagogy; but none of these arts can easily be so dis- 
honorable or mischievous as the art of caning. And, after 
all, if larger liberties are attached to the acquisition of 
knowledge, and the child finds that it can no more go to 
the seaside without a knowledge of the multiplication and 
pence tables than it can be an astronomer without math- 
ematics, it will learn the multiplication table, which is 
more than it always does at present, in spite of all the can- 
ings and keepings in. 


The Pursuit of Learning 


When the Pursuit of Learning comes to mean the 
pursuit of learning by the child instead of the pursuit 
of the child by Learning, cane in hand, the danger will be 
precocity of the intellect, which is just as undesirable as 
precocity of the emotions. We still have a silly habit 


Parents and Children Ixxxvil 


of talking and thinking as if intellect were a meehanical 
process and not a passion; and in spite of the German 
tutors who confess openly that three out of every five of 
the young men they coach for examinations are lamed 
for life thereby; in spite of Dickens and his picture of 
little Paul Dombey dying of lessons, we persist in heaping 
on growing children and adolescent youths and maidens 
tasks Pythagoras would have declined out of common 
regard for his own health and common modesty as to his 
own capacity. And this overwork is not all the effect of 
compulsion; for the average schoolmaster does not eompel 
his scholars to learn: he only scolds and punishes them if 
they do not, which is quite a different thing, the net effect 
being that the school prisoners need not learn unless they 
like. Nay, it is sometimes remarked that the school dunce 
—meaning the one who does not like—often turns out 
well afterwards, as if idleness were a sign of ability and 
character. A much more sensible explanation is that the 
so-called dunces are not exhausted before they begin the 
serious business of life. It is said that boys will be boys; 
and one can only add one wishes they would. Boys really 
want to be manly, and are unfortunately encouraged 
thoughtlessly in this very dangerous and overstraining 
aspiration. All the people who have really worked (Her- 
bert Spencer for instance) warn us against work as earn- 
estly as some people warn us against drink. When learning 
is placed on the voluntary footing of sport, the teacher 
will find himself saying every day “‘Run away and play: 
you have worked as much as is good for you.” Trying to 
make children leave school will be like trying to make 
them go to bed; and it will be necessary to surprise them 
with the idea that teaching is work, and that the teacher 
is tired and must go play or rest or eat: possibilities 
always concealed by that infamous humbug the current 
schoolmaster, who achieves a spurious divinity and a 
witch doetor’s authority by persuading children that he 





Ixxxvill Parents and Children 


is not human, just as ladies persuade them that they 
have no legs. 


Children and Game: a Proposal 


Of the many wild absurdities of our existing social 
order perhaps the most grotesque is the costly and strictly 
enforced reservation of large tracts of country as deer 
forests and breeding grounds for pheasants whilst there 
is so little provision of the kind made for children. TI 
have more than once thought of trying to introduce the 
shooting of children as a sport, as the children would 
then be preserved very carefully for ten months in the 
year, thereby reducing their death rate far more than the 
fusillades of the sportsmen during the other two would 
raise it. At present the killing of a fox except by a pack 
of foxhounds is regarded with horror; but you may and 
do kill children in a hundred and fifty ways provided 
you do not shoot them or set a pack of dogs on them. It 
must be admitted that the foxes have the best of it; and 
indeed a glance at our pheasants, our deer, and our chil- 
dren will convince the most sceptical that the children 
have decidedly the worst of it. 

This much hope, however, can be extracted from the 
present state of things. It is so fantastic, so mad, so 
apparently impossible, that no scheme of reform need 
ever henceforth be discredited on the ground that it is 
fantastic or mad or apparently impossible. It is the sen- 
sible schemes, unfortunately, that are hopeless in England. 
Therefore I have great hopes that my own views, though 
fundamentally sensible, can be made to appear fantastic 
enough to have a chance. 

First, then, I lay it down as a prime condition of sane 
society, obvious as such to anyone but an idiot, that in 
any decent community, children should find in every 
part of their native country, food, clothing, lodging, in- 


Parents and Children Ixxx1x 


struetion, and parental kindness for the asking. For the 
matter of that, so should adults; but the two eases differ 
in that as these commodities do not grow on the bushes, 
the adults cannot have them unless they themselves 
organize and provide the supply, whereas the children 
must have them as if by magic, with nothing to do but 
rub the lamp, like Aladdin, and have their needs satisfied. 


The Parents’ Intolerable Burden 


There is nothing new in this: it is how children have 
always had and must always have their needs satisfied. 
The parent has to play the part of Aladdin’s djinn; and 
many a parent has sunk beneath the burden of this serv- 
ice. All the novelty we need is to organize it so that in- 
stead of the individual child fastening like a parasite on 
its own particular parents, the whole body of elildren 
should be thrown not only upon the whole body of par- 
ents, but upon the celibates and childless as well, whose 
present exemption from a full share in the social burden 
of children is obviously unjust and unwholesome. Today 
it is easy to find a widow who has at great cost to herself 
in pain, danger, and disablement, borne six or eight chil- 
dren. In the same town you will find rich baehelors and 
old maids, and married couples with no children or with 
families voluntarily limited to two or three. The eight 
children do not belong to the woman in any real or legal 
sense. When she has reared them they pass away from 
her into the community as independent persons, marrying 
strangers, working for strangers, spending on the com- 
munity the life that has been built up at her expense. No 
more monstrous injustice could be imagined than that 
the burden of rearing the children should fall on her alone 
and not on the celibates and the selfish as well. 

This is so far reeognized that already the child finds, 
wherever it goes, a school for it, and somebody to force 


xe Parents and Children 


it into the school; and more and more these schools are 
being driven by the mere logic of facts to provide the 
children with meals, with boots, with spectacles, with 
dentists and doctors. In fact, when the child’s parents 
are destitute or not to be found, bread, lodging, and cloth- 
ing are provided. It is true that they are provided grudg- 
ingly and on conditions infamous enough to draw down 
abundant fire from Heaven upon us every day in the shape 
of crime and disease and vice; but still the practice of 
keeping children barely alive at the charge of the commun- 
ity is established; and there is no need for me to argue 
about it. I propose only two extensions of the practice. 
One is to provide for all the child’s reasonable human 
wants, on which point, if you differ from me, I shall take 
leave to say that you are socially a focl and personally 
an inhuman wretch. The other is that these wants should 
be supplied in complete freedom from compulsory school- 
ing or compulsory anything except restraint from crime, 
though, as they can be supplied only by social organiza- 
lion, the child must be conscious of and subject to the 
conditions of that organization, which may involve such 
portions of adult responsibility and duty as a child may 
be able to bear according to its age, and which will in 
any case prevent it from forming the vagabond and anar- 
chist habit of mind. 

One more exception might be necessary: compulsory 
freedom. Iam sure that a child should not be impris- 
oned in a school. Iam not so sure that it should not 
sometimes be driven out into the open—imprisoned in 
the woods and on the mountains, as it were. For there 
are frowsty children, just as there are frowsty adults, 
who dont want freedom. This morbid result of over- 
domestication would, let us hope, soon disappear with its 
cause. 


Parents and Children XCl 


Mobilization 


Those who see no prospect held out to them by this 
except a country in which all the children shall be roam- 
ing savages, should consider, first, whether their condition 
would be any worse than that of the little caged savages 
of today, and second, whether either children or adults 
are so apt to run wild that it is necessary to tether them 
fast to one neighborhood to prevent a general dissolution 
of society. My own observation leads me to believe that 
we are not half mobilized enough. ‘True, I cannot deny 
that we are more mobile than we were. You will still 
find in the home counties old men who have never been 
to London, and who tell you that they once went to Win- 
chester or St Albans much as if they had been to the South 
Pole; but they are not so common as the elerk who has 
been to Paris or to Lovely Lucerne, and who “‘goes away 
somewhere’? when he has a holiday. His grandfather 
never had a holiday, and, if he had, would no more have 
dreamed of crossing the Channel than of taking a box at 
the Opera. But with all allowance for the Polyteehnie 
excursion and the tourist agency, our inertia is still ap- 
palling. I confess to having once spent nine years in 
London without putting my nose outside it; and though 
this was better, perhaps, than the restless globe-trotting 
vagabondage of the idle rieh, wandering from hotel to 
hotel and never really living anywhere, yet I should no 
more have done it if I had been properly mobilized in my 
childhood than I should have worn the same suit of clothes 
all that time (which, by the way, I very nearly did, my 
professional income not having as yet begun to sprout). 
There are masses of people who could afford at least a 
trip to Margate, and a good many who could afford a 
trip round the world, who are more immovable than 
Aldgate pump. ‘To others, who would move if they knew 
how, travelling is surrounded with imaginary difficulties 


xcll Parents and Children 


and terrors. In short, the difficulty is not to fix people, 
but to root them up. We keep repeating the silly proverb 
that a rolling stone gathers no moss, as if moss were a 
desirable parasite. What we mean is that a vagabond does 
not prosper. Even this is not true, if prosperity means 
enjoyment as well as responsibility and money. The real 
misery of vagabondage is the misery of having nothing to 
do and nowhere to go, the misery of being derelict of God 
and Man, the misery of the idle, poor or rich. And this 
is one of the miseries of unoccupied childhood. The un- 
occupied adult, thus afflicted, tries many distractions 
which are, to say the least, unsuited to children. But 
one of them, the distraction of seeing the world, is inno- 
cent and beneficial. Also it is childish, being a continua- 
tion of what nurses call “‘taking notice,’’ by which a 
child becomes experienced. It is pitiable nowadays to 
see men and women doing after the age of 45 all the trav- 
elling and sightseeing they should have done before they 
were 15. Mere wondering and staring at things is an 
important part of a child’s education: that is why children 
ean be thoroughly mobilized without making vagabonds 
of them. A vagabond is at home nowhere because he 
wanders: a child should wander because it ought to be at 
home everywhere. And if it has its papers and its pass- 
ports, and gets what it requires not by begging and pilfer- 
ing, but from responsible agents of the community as of 
right, and with some formal acknowledgment of the obli- 
gations it is incurring and a knowledge of the fact that 
these obligations are being recorded: if, further, certain 
qualifications are exacted before it is promoted from per- 
mission to go as far as its legs will carry it to using mechan- 
ical aids to locomotion, it can roam without much danger 
of gypsifieation. 

Under such circumstances the boy or girl could always 
run away, and never be lost; and on no other conditions 
ean a child be free without being also a homeless outcast. 


Parents and Children XCill 


Parents could also run away from disagreeable children or 
drive them out of doors or even drop their acquaintance, 
temporarily or permanently, without inhumanity. Thus 
both parties would be on their good behavior, and not, as 
at present, on their filial or parental behavior, which, 
like all unfree behavior, is mostly bad behavior. 

As to what other results might follow, we had better 
wait and see; for nobody now alive can imagine what 
eustoms and institutions would grow up in societies of 
free children. Child laws and child fashions, child man- 
ners and child morals are now not tolerated; but among 
free children there would certainly be surprising develop- 
ments in this direction. I do not think there would be 
any danger of free children behaving as badly as grown-up 
people do now beeause they have never been free. They 
could hardly behave worse, anyhow. 


Children’s Rights and Parents’ Wrongs 


A very distinguished man onee assured a mother of my 
acquaintance that she would never know what it meant 
to be hurt until she was hurt through her ehildren. 
Children are extremely cruel without intending it; and mn 
ninety-nine eases out of a hundred the reason is that they 
do not coneeive their elders as having any human feelings. 
Serve the elders right, perhaps, for posing as superhuman! 
The penalty of the impostor is not that he is found out 
(he very seldom is) but that he is taken for what he pre- 
tends to be, and treated as such. And to be treated as 
anything but what you really are may seem pleasant io 
the imagination when the treatment is above your merits; 
but in actual experience it is often quite the reverse. When 
I was a very small boy, my romantic imagination, stim- 
ulated by early doses of fiction, led me to brag to a still 
smaller boy so outrageously that he, being a simple soul, 
really believed me to be an invincible hero. I cannot 


XCIV Parents and Children 


remember whether this pleased me much; but I do re- 
member very distinctly that one day this admirer of 
mine, who had a pet goat, found the animal in the hands 
of a larger boy than either of us, who mocked him and 
refused to restore the animal to his rightful owner. 
Whereupon, naturally, he came weeping to me, and de- 
manded that I should rescue the goat and annihilate the 
aggressor. My terror was beyond description: fortunately 
for me, it imparted such a ghastliness to my voice and 
aspect as I, under the eye of my poor little dupe, advanced 
on the enemy with that hideous extremity of cowardice 
which is called the courage of despair, and said “‘ You let 
go that goat,’ that he abandoned his prey and fled, to 
my unforgettable, unspeakable relief. I have never since 
exaggerated my prowess in bodily combat. 

Now what happened to me in the adventure of the 
goat happens very often to parents, and would happen 
to schoolmasters if the prison door of the school did not 
shut out the trials of hfe. I remember once, at school, 
the resident head master was brought down to earth by 
the sudden illness of his wife. In the confusion that en- 
sued it became necessary to leave one of the schoolrooms 
without a master. I was in the class that occupied that 
schoolroom. ‘To have sent us home would have been to 
break the fundamental bargain with our parents by which 
the school was bound to keep us out of their way for half 
the day at all hazards. Therefore an appeal had to be 
made to our better feelings: that 1s, to our common hu- 
manity, not to make a noise. But the head master had 
never admitted any common humanity with us. We had 
been carefully broken in to regard him as a being quite 
aloof from and above us: one not subject to error or suf- 
fering or death or illness or mortality. Consequently 
sympathy was impossible; and if the unfortunate lady 
did not perish, it was because, as I now comfort myself 
with guessing, she was too much pre-occupied with her 


Parents and Children Xev 


own pains, and possibly making too mueh noise herself, 
to be conscious of the pandemonium downstairs. 

A great deal of the fiendishness of schoolboys and the 
cruelty of children to their elders is produecd just in this 
way. Elders cannot be superhuman beimgs and suffering 
fellow-creatures at the same time. If you pose as a little 
god, you must pose for better for worse. 


How Little We Know About Our Parents 


The relation between parent and eclild has cruel mo- 
ments for the parent even when money 1s no object, and 
the material worries are delegated to servants and school 
teachers. The child and the parent are strangers to one 
another necessarily, because their ages must differ widely. 
Read Goethe’s autobiography; and note that though he 
was happy in his parents and had exceptional powers of 
observation, divination, and story-telling, he knew less 
about his father and mother than about most of the other 
people he mentions. I myself was never on bad terms 
with my mother: we lived together until I was forty-two 
years old, absolutely without the smallest frietion of any 
kind; yet when her death set me thinking curiously about 
our relations, I realized that I knew very little about 
her. Introduce me to a strange woman who was a child 
when I was a child, a girl when I was a boy, an adolescent 
when I was an adoleseent; and if we take naturally to one 
another I will know more of her and she of me at the end 
of forty days (I had almost said of forty minutes) than I 
knew of my mother at the end of forty years. A contein- 
porary stranger is a novelty and an enigma, also a possi- 
bility; but a mother is like a broomstiek or like the sun in 
the heavens, it does not matter whieh as far as one’s 
knowledge of her is concerned: the broomstiek is there 
and the sun is there; and whether the ehild is beaten by 
it or warmed and enlightened by it, it accepts it as a fact 


XeVvl | Parents and Children 


in nature, and does not conceive it as having had youth, 
passions, and weaknesses, or as still growing, yearning, 
suffering, and learning. If I meet a widow I may ask her 
all about her marriage; but what son ever dreams of ask- 
ing his mother about her marriage, or could endure to 
hear of it without violently breaking off the old sacred 
relationship between them, and ceasing to be her child 
or anything more to her than the first man in the street 
might be? 

Yet though in this sense the child cannot realize its 
parent’s humanity, the parent can realize the child’s; for 
the parents with their experience of life have none of the 
illusions about the child that the clild has about the 
parents; and the consequence is that the child can hurt 
its parents’ feelings much more than its parents can hurt 
the clild’s, because the child, even when there has been 
none of the deliberate hypocrisy by which children are 
taken advantage of by their elders, cannot conceive 
the parent as a fellow-creature, whilst the parents know 
very well that the children are only themselves over 
again. The child cannot conceive that its blame or con- 
tempt or want of interest could possibly hurt its parent, 
and therefore expresses them all with an indifference 
which has given rise to the term enfant terrible (a tragic 
term in spite of the jests connected with it); whilst the 
parent can suffer from such slights and reproaches more 
from a child than from anyone else, even when the child 
is not beloved, because the child is so unmistakably sincere 
11 them. 


Our Abandoned Mothers 


Take a very common instance of this agonizing incom- 
patibility. A widow brings up her son to manhood. He 
meets a strange woman, and goes off with and marries 
her, leaving his mother desolate. It does not occur to him 
that this is at all hard on her: he does it as a matter of 


Parents and Children Xevil 


course, and actually expects lis mother to receive, on 
terms of special affection, the woman for whom she has 
been abandoned. If he shewed any sense of what he was 
doing, any remorse; if he mingled his tears with hers and 
asked her not to think too hardly of him beeause he had 
obeyed the inevitable destiny of a man to leave his father 
and mother and cleave to his wife, she could give him her 
blessing and accept her bereavement with dignity and 
without reproach. But the man never dreams of such con- 
siderations. To him his mother’s feeling in the matter, 
when she betrays it, is unreasonable, ridiculous, and eveu 
odious, as shewing a prejudice against his adorable bride. 

I have taken the widow as an extreme and obvious case; 
but there are many husbands and wives who arc tired of 
their consorts, or disappointed in them, or estranged 
from them by infidelities; and these parents, in losing a 
son or a daughter through marriage, may be losing every- 
thing they care for. No parent’s love is as innocent as the 
Jove of a child: the exclusion of all conscious sexual feeling 
from it does not exclude the bitterness, jealousy, and de- 
spair at loss which characterize sexua! passion: in faet, 
what is called a pure love may easily be more selfish and 
jealous than a carnal one. Anyhow, it is plain matter of 
fact that naively selfish people sometimes try with fierce 
jealousy to prevent their children marrying. 


Family Affection 


Until the family as we know it ceases to exist, nobody 
will dare to analyze parental affection as distinguished 
from that general human sympathy whieh has secured to 
many an orphan fonder care in a stranger’s house than it 
would have received from its actual parents. Not even 
Tolstoy, in The Kreutzer Sonata, has said all that we 
suspect abont it. When it persists beyond the period at 
which it ceases to be neeessary to the child’s welfare, it 


Xx¢Cvlll Parents and Children 


is apt to be morbid; and we are probably wrong to in- 
culcate its deliberate cultivation. The natural course is 
for the parents and children to cast off the specific parental 
and filial relation when they are no longer necessary to 
one another. The child dees this readily enough to form 
fresh ties, closer and more fascinating. Parents are not 
always excluded from such compensations: it happens 
sometimes that when the children go out at the door the 
lover comes in at the window. Indeed it happens now 
oftener than it used to, because people remain much 
longer in the sexual arena. The cultivated Jewess no 
longer cuts off her hair at her marriage. The British 
matron has discarded her cap and her conscientious ugli- 
ness; and a bishop’s wife at fifty has more of the air of a 
femme galante than an actress had at thirty-five in her 
grandmother’s time. But as people marry later, the facts 
of age and time still inexorably condemn most parents to 
comparative solitude when their children marry. This may 
be a privation and may be a relief: probably in healthy 
circumstances it is no worse than a salutary change of 
habit; but even at that it is, for the moment at least, a 
wrench. For though parents and children sometimes dis- 
like one another, there is an experience of succor and a 
habit of dependence and expectation formed in infancy 
which naturally attaches a child to its parent or to its 
nurse (a foster parent) in a quite peculiar way. A benefit 
to the child may be a burden to the parent; but people 
become attached to their burdens sometimes more than 
the burdens are attached to them; and to “‘suffer little 
children” has become an affectionate impulse deep in our 
nature. 

Now there is no such impulse to suffer our sisters and 
brothers, our aunts and uncles, much less our cousins. If 
we could choose our relatives, we might, by selecting con- 
genial ones, mitigate the repulsive effect of the obligation 
to like them and to admit them to our intimacy. But to 


Parents and Children XCIX 


have a person imposed on us as a brother merely because 
he happens to have the same parents is unbearable when, 
as may easily happen, he is the sort of person we should 
carefully avoid if he were anyone else’s brother. All Eu- 
rope (except Scotland, which has clans instead of fam- 
ilies) draws the line at second cousins. Protestantism 
draws it still closer by making the first cousin a marriage- 
able stranger; and the only reason for not drawing it at 
sisters and brothers is that the institution of the family 
compels us to spend our childhood with them, and thus 
imposes on us a curious relation in which familiarity de- 
stroys romantic charm, and is yet expected to create a 
specially warm affection. Such a relation is dangerously 
factitious and unnatural; and the practical moral is that 
the less said at home about specific family affection the 
better. Children, like grown-up people, get on well enough 
together if they are not pushed down one another’s throats; 
and grown-up relatives will get on together in proportion 
to their separation and their care not to presume on their 
blood relationship. We should Ict children’s feelings take 
their natural course without prompting. I have seen a 
child scolded and called unfeeling because it did not occur 
to it to make a theatrical demonstration of affectionate 
delight when its mother returned after an abscnee: a 
typical example of the way in which spurious family sen- 
timent is stoked up. We arc, after all, sociable animals; 
and if we are let alone in the matter of our affections, and 
well brought up otherwise, we shall not get on any the 
worse with particular people because they happen to be 
our brothers and sisters and cousins. The danger lies in 
assuming that we shall get on any better. 

The main point to grasp here is that families are not 
kept together at present by family feeling but by human 
feeling. The family cultivates sympathy and mutual 
help and consolation as any other form of kindly assoeia- 
tion cultivates them; but the addition of a dictated com- 


C Parents and Children 


pulsory affection as an attribute of near kinship is not 
only unnecessary, but positively detrimental; and the 
alleged tendency of modern social development to break 
up the family need alarm nobody. We cannot break up 
the facts of kinship nor eradicate its natural emotional 
consequences. What we can do and ought to do is to set 
people free to behave naturally and to change their be- 
havior as circumstances change. ‘To impose on a citizen 
of London the family duties of a Highland cateran in the 
eighteenth century is as absurd as to compel him to carry 
a claymore and target instead of an umbrella. The civ- 
ilized man has no special use for cousins; and he may pres- 
ently find that he has no special use for brothers and 
sisters. The parent seems likely to remain indispensable; 
but there is no reason why that natural tie should be 
made the excuse for unnatural aggravations of it, as 
crushing to the parent as they are oppressive to the child. 
The mother and father will not always have to shoulder 
the burthen of maintenance which should fall on the Atias 
shoulders of the fatherland and motherland. Pending 
such reforms and emancipations, a shattering break-up of 
the parental home must remain one of the normal incidents 
of marriage. The parent is left lonely and the child is not. 
Woe to the old if they have no impersonal interests, no 
convictions, no public causes to advance, no tastes or 
hobbies! It is well to be a mother but not to be a mother- 
in-law; and if men were cut off artificially from intellec- 
tnal and public interests as women are, the father-in-law 
would be as deplorable a figure in popular tradition as 
the mother-in-law. 

It is not to be wondered at that some people hold that 
blood relationship should be kept a secret from the per- 
sons related, and that the happiest condition in this re- 
spect is that of the foundling who, if he ever meets his 
parents or brothers or sisters, passes them by without 
knowing them. And for such a view there is this to be 


Parents and Children ci 


said: that our family system does unquestionably take 
the natural bond between members of the same family, 
which, like all natural bonds, is not too tight to be borne, 
and superimposes on it a painful burden of forced, incul- 
cated, suggested, and altogether unnecessary affection 
and responsibility which we should do well to get rid of 
by making relatives as independent of one another as 
possible. 


The Fate of the Family 


The difficulty of inducing people to talk sensibly about 
the family is the same as that which I pointed out in a 
previous volume as confusing discussions of marriage. 
Marriage is not a single invariable institution: it changes 
from civilization to civilization, from religion to religion, 
from civil eode to civil code, from frontier to frontier. 
The family is still more variable, because the number of 
persons constituting a family, unike the number of persons 
constituting a marriage, varies from one to twenty: indeed, 
when a widower with a family marries a widow with a 
family, and the two produce a third family, even that 
very high number may be surpassed. And the conditions 
may vary between opposite extremes: for example, in a 
London or Paris slum every child adds to the burden of 
poverty and helps to starve the parents and all the other 
children, whereas in a settlement of pioneer colonists 
every child, from the moment it is big enough to lend a 
hand to the family industry, ts an investment in which 
the only danger is that of temporary over-capitalization. 
Then there are the variations in family sentiment. Some- 
times the family organization is as frankly political as the 
organization of an army or an industry: fathers being no 
more expected to be sentimental about their children 
than colonels about soldiers, or factory owners about their 
employees, though the mother may be allowed a little 
tenderness if her character is weak. The Roman father 


cll Parents and Children 


was a despot: the Chinese father is an object of worship: 
the sentimental modern western father is often a play- 
fellow looked to for toys and pocket-money. The farmer 
sees his children constantly: the squire sees them only 
during the holidays, and not then oftener than he can 
help: the tram conductor, when employed by a joint stock 
company, sometimes never sees them at all. 

Under such circumstances phrases like The Influence 
of Home Life, The Family, The Domestic Hearth, and 
so on, are no more specific than The Mammals, or The 
Man In The Street; and the pious generalizations founded 
so glibly on them by our sentimental moralists are un- 
workable. When households average twelve persons 
with the sexes about equally represented, the results may 
be fairly good. When they average three the results may 
be very bad indeed; and to lump the two together under 
the general term The Family is to confuse the question 
hopelessly. The modern small family is much too stuffy: 
children “brought up at home” in it are unfit for society. 

But here again circumstances differ. If the parents 
live in what is called a garden suburb, where there is a 
good deal of social intercourse, and the family, instead of 
keeping itself to itself, as the evil old saying is, and glower- 
ing at the neighbors over the blinds of the long street in 
which nobody knows his neighbor and everyone wishes 
to deceive him as to his income and social importance, is 
in effect broken up by school life, by out-of-door habits, 
and by frank neighborly intercourse through dances and 
concerts and theatricals and excursions and the like, fam- 
ilies of four may turn out much less barbarous citizens 
than families of ten which attain the Boer ideal of being 
out of sight of one another’s chimney smoke. 

All one can say is, roughly, that the homelier the home, 
and the more familiar the family, the worse for everybody 
concerned. The family ideal is a humbug and a nuisance: 
one might as reasonably talk of the barrack ideal, or the 


Parents and Children Clli 


forecastle ideal, or any other substitution of the machinery 
of social organization for the end of it, which must always 
be the fullest and most capable life: in short, the most 
godly life. And this significant word reminds us that 
though the popular coneeption of heaven includes a 
Holy Family, it does not attach to that family the notion 
of a separate home, or a private nursery or kitehen or 
mother-in-law, or anything that eonstitutes the family as 
we know it. Even blood relationship is miraculously 
abstracted from it; and the Father is the father of all 
children, the mother the mother of all mothers and babies, 
and the Son the Son of Man and the Savior of his brothers: 
one whose chief utterance on the subject of the conven- 
tional family was an invitation to all of us to Icave our 
families and follow him, and to leave the dead to bury the 
dead, and not debauch ourselves at that gloomy festival 
the family funeral, with its sequel of hideous mourning 
and grief which is either affected or morbid. 


Family Mourning 


I do not know how far this detestable custom of mourn- 
ing is carried in France; but judging from the appearance 
of the French people I should say that a Frenchwoman 
goes into mourning fer her cousins to the seventeenth 
degree. The result is that when I cross the Channel I 
seem to have reached a country devastated by war or 
pestilence. It is really suffering only from the family. 
Will anyone pretend that England has not the best of 
this striking difference? Yet it is such senseless and un- 
natural conventions as this that make us so impatient of 
what we call family feeling. Even apart from its insuffer- 
able pretensions, the family needs hearty discrediting; 
for there ts hardly any vulnerable part of it that could not 
be amputated with advantage. 


ClV Parents and Children 


Art Teaching 


By art teaching I hasten to say that I do not mean 
giving children lessons in freehand drawing and perspec- 
tive. JI am simply calling attention to the fact that fine 
art is the only teacher except torture. I have already 
pointed out that nobody, except under threat of torture, 
can read a school book. The reason is that a school book 
is not a work of art. Similarly, you cannot listen to a 
lesson or a sermon unless the teacher or the preacher is 
an artist. You cannot read the Bible if you have no sense 
of hterary art. The reason why the continental European 
is, to the Englishman or American, so surprisingly ignorant 
of the Bible, is that the authorized English version is a 
great work of literary art, and the continental versions 
are comparatively artless. To read a dull book; to listen 
to a tedious play or prosy sermon or lecture; to stare at 
uninteresting pictures or ugly buildings: nothing, short 
of disease, 1s more dreadful than this. The violence done 
to our souls by it leaves injuries and produces subtle mal- 
adies which have never been properly studied by psycho- 
pathologists. Yet we are so inured to it in school, where 
practically all the teachers are bores trying to do the work 
of artists, and all the books artless, that we acquire a 
truly frightful power of enduring boredom. We even 
acquire the notion that fine art is lascivious and destruc- 
tive to the character. In church, in the House of Com- 
mons, at public meetings, we sit solemnly listening to 
bores and twaddlers because from the time we could walk 
or speak we have been snubbed, scolded, bullied, beaten 
and imprisoned whenever we dared to resent being bored 
or twaddled at, or to express our natural impatience and 
derision of bores and twaddlers. And when a man arises 
with a soul of sufficient native strength to break the bonds 
of this inculeated reverence and to expose and deride 
and tweak the noses of our humbugs and panjandrums, 


Parents and Children CV 


like Voltaire or Dickens, we are shocked and scandalized, 
even when we cannot help laughing. Worse, we dread 
and persecute those who can see and declare the truth, 
because their sincerity and insight reflects on our delusion 
and blindness. We are all like Nell Gwynne’s footman, 
who defended Nell’s reputation with his fists, not because 
he believed her to be what he called an honest woman, 
but because he objected to be scorned as the footman of 
one who was no better than she should be. 

This wretched power of allowing ourselves to be bored 
may seem to give the fine arts a chance sometimes. 
People will sit through a performance of Beethoven’s 
ninth symphony or of Wagner’s Ring just as they will sit 
through a dull sermon or a front bench politician saying 
nothing for two hours whilst his unfortunate country is 
perishing through the delay of its business in Parliament. 
But their endurance is very bad for the ninth symphony, 
because they never hiss when it is murdered. I have heard 
an Italian conductor (no longer living) take the adagio 
of that symphony at a lively allegretto, slowing down for 
the warmer major sections into the speed and manner of 
the heroine’s death song in a Verdi opera; and the listeners, 
far from relieving my excruciation by rising with yells of 
fury and hurling their programs and opera glasses at the 
miscreant, behaved just as they do when Richter conducts 
it. The mass of imposture that thrives on this combination 
of ignorance with despairing endurance is incalculable. 
Given a public trained from childhood to stand anything 
tedious, and so saturated with school discipline that even 
with the doors open and no schoolmasters to stop them 
they will sit there helplessly until the end of the concert or 
opera gives them leave to go home; and you will have in 
great capitals hundreds of thousands of pounds spent every 
night in the season on professedly artistic entertainments 
which have no other effect on fine art than to exacerbate 
the hatred in which it is already secretly held in England. 


evl Parents and Children 


Fortunately, there are arts that cannot be cut off from 
the people by bad performances. We can read books for 
ourselves; and we can play a good deal of fine music for 
ourselves with the help of a pianola. Nothing stands 
between us and the actual handwork of the great masters 
of painting except distance; and modern photographic 
methods of reproduction are in some cases quite and in 
many nearly as effective in conveying the artist’s message 
as a modern edition of Shakespear’s plays is in conveying 
the message that first existed in his handwriting. The 
reproduction of great feats of musical execution is already 
on the way: the phonograph, for all its wheezing and 
snarling and braying, is steadily improving in its manners; 
and what with this improvement on the one hand, and 
on the other that blessed selective faculty which enables 
us to ignore a good deal of disagreeable noise if there is a 
thread of music in the middle of it (few critics of the pho- 
nograph seem to be conscious of the very considerable 
mechanical noise set up by choirs and orchestras) we 
have at last reached a point at which, for example, a 
person living in an English village where the church music 
is the only music, and that music is made by a few well- 
intentioned ladies with the help of a harmonium, can 
hear masses by Palestrina very passably executed, and 
ean thereby be led to the discovery that Jackson in F and 
Hymns Ancient and Modern are not perhaps the last 
word of beauty and propriety in the praise of God. 

Tn short, there is a vast body of art now within the reach 
of everybody. The difficulty is that this art, which alone 
can educate us in grace of body and soul, and which 
alone can make the history of the past live for us or the 
hope of the future shine for us, which alone can give 
delicacy and nobility to our crude lusts, which is the ap- 
pointed vehicle of inspiration and the method of the com- 
munion of saints, is actually branded as sinful among us 
because, wherever it arises, there is resistance to tyranny, 


Parents and Children evil 


breaking of fetters, and the breath of freedom. The 
attempt to suppress art is not wholly successful: we might 
as well try tosuppress oxygen. But it is carried far enough 
to inflict on huge numbers of people a most injurious art 
starvation, and to corrupt a great deal of the art that is 
tolerated. You will find in England plenty of rich families 
with little more culture than their dogs and horses. And 
you will find poor families, cut off by poverty and town 
life from the contemplation of the beauty of the earth, 
with its dresses of leaves, its scarves of cloud, and its 
contours of hill and valley, who would positively be hap- 
pier as hogs, so little have they cultivated their humanity 
by the only effective instrument of culture: art. The 
dearth is artificially maintained even when there are the 
means of satisfying it. Story books are forbidden, pieture 
post cards are forbidden, theatres are forbidden, operas 
are forbidden, circuses are forbidden, sweetmeats are for- 
bidden, pretty colors are forbidden, all exactly as vice is 
forbidden. The Creator is explicitly prayed to, and im- 
plicitly convicted of indecency every day. An association 
of vice and sin with everything that is delightful and of 
goodness with everything that is wretched and detestable 
is set up. All the most perilous (and glorious) appetites 
and propensities are at once inflamed by starvation and 
uneducated by art. All the wholesome eonditions whieh 
art imposes on appetite are waived: instead of cultivated 
men and women restrained by a thousand delicacies, re- 
pelled by ugliness, chilled by vulgarity, horrified by coarse- 
ness, deeply and sweetly moved by the graces that art has 
revealed to them and nursed in them, we get indiscrim- 
inate rapacity in pursuit of pleasure and a parade of the 
grossest stimulations in catering for it. We have a con- 
tinual clamor for goodness, beauty, virtue, and sanctity, 
with such an appalling inability to recognize it or love it 
when it arrives that it is more dangerous to be a great 
prophet or poet than to promote twenty companies for 


evil Parents and Children 


swindling simple folk out of their savings. Do not for a 
moment suppose that uncultivated people are merely in- 
different to high and noble qualities. They hate them 
malignantly. At best, such qualities are hke rare and 
beautiful birds: when they appear the whole country 
takes down its guns; but the birds receive the statuary 
tribute of having their corpses stuffed. 

And it really all comes from the habit of preventing 
children from being troublesome. You are so careful of 
your boy’s morals, knowing how troublesome they may 
be, that you keep him away from the Venus of Milo only 
to find him in the arms of the scullery maid or someone 
much worse. You decide that the Hermes of Praxiteles 
‘and Wagner’s Tristan are not suited for young girls; and 
your daughter marries somebody appallingly unlike either 
Hermes or Tristan solely to escape from your parental 
protection. You have not stifled a single passion nor 
averted a single danger: you have depraved the passions 
by starving them, and broken down all the defences 
which so effectively protect children brought up in free- 
dom. You have men who imagine themselves to be min- 
isters of religion openly declaring that when they pass 
through the streets they have to keep out in the wheeled 
trafic to avoid the temptations of the pavement. You 
have them organizing hunts of the women who tempt them 
—poor creatures whom no artist would touch without a 
shudder—and wildly clamoring for more clothes to dis- 
guise and conceal the body, and for the abolition of pic- 
tures, statues, theatres, and pretty colors. And incredible 
as it seems, these unhappy lunatics are left at large, un- 
rebuked, even admired and revered, whilst artists have 
to struggle for toleration. To them au undraped human 
body is the most monstrous, the most blighting, the 
most obscene, the most unbearable spectacle in the uni- 
verse. To an artist it 1s, at its best, the most admirable 
spectacle in nature, and, at its average, an object of indif- 


Parents and Children Clx 


ference. If every rag of clothing miraculously dropped 
from the inhabitants of London at noon tomorrow (say 
as a preliminary to the Great Judgment), the artistic 
people would not turn a hair; but the artless people would 
go mad and call on the mountains to hide them. I submit 
that this indicates a thoroughly healthy state on the part 
of the artists, and a thoroughly morbid one on the part 
of the artless. And the healthy state is attainable in a 
cold country like ours only by familiarity with the un- 
draped figure acquired through pictures, statues, and 
theatrical representations in which an illusion of natural 
clotheslessness is produced and made poetic. 

In short, we all grow up stupid and mad to just the 
extent to which we have not been artistically educated; 
and the fact that this taint of stupidity and madness has 
to be tolerated because it is general, and is even boasted 
of as characteristically English, makes the situation all 
the worse. It is becoming exceedingly grave at present, 
because the last ray of art is being cut off from our schools 
by the discontinuance of religious education. 


The Impossibility of Secular Education 


Now children must be taught some sort of religion. 
Secular education is an impossibility. Seeular edueation 
comes to this: that the only reason for ceasing to do evil 
and learning to do well is that if you do not you will be 
caned. This is worse than being taught in a ehureh sehool 
that if you become a dissenter you will go to hell; for hell 
is presented as the instrument of something eternal, di- 
vine, and inevitable: you cannot evade it the moment the 
schoolmaster’s back is turned. What confuses this issue 
and leads even highly intelligent religious persons to ad- 
vocate secular education as a means of rescuing children 
from the strife of rival proselytizers is the failure to dis- 
tinguish between the child’s personal subjective need for 


Cx Parents and Children 


a religion and its right to an impartially communicated 
historical objective knowledge of all the creeds and 
Churches. Just as a child, no matter what its race and 
color may be, should know that there are black men and 
brown men and yellow men, and, no matter what its 
political convictions may be, that there are Monarchists 
and Republicans and Positivists, Socialists and Unso- 
cialists, so it should know that there are Christians and 
Mahometans and Buddhists and Shintoists and so forth, 
and that they are on the average just as honest and well- 
behaved as its own father. For example, it should not be 
told that Allah is a false god set up by the Turks and 
Arabs, who will all be damned for taking that liberty; 
but it should be told that many English people think so, 
and that many Turks and Arabs think the converse about 
English people. It should be taught that Allah 1s simply 
the name by which God is known to Turks and Arabs, who 
are just as eligible for salvation as any Christian. Further, 
that the practical reason why a Turkish child should pray 
in a mosque and an English child in a church is that as 
worship is organized in Turkey in mosques in the name of 
Mahomet and in England in churches in the name of 
Christ, a Turkish child joining the Church of England or 
an English child following Mahomet will find that it has 
no place for its worship and no organization of its religion 
within its reach. Any other teaching of the history and 
present facts of religion is false teaching, and is politically 
extremely dangerous in an empire in which a huge majority 
of the fellow subjects of the governing island do not pro- 
fess the religion of that island. 

But this objectivity, though intellectually honest, tells 
the child only what other people believe. What it should 
itself believe is quite another matter. The sort of Ra- 
tionalism which says to a child “‘ You must suspend your 
judgment until you are old enough to choose your reli- 
gion” is Rationalism gone mad. The child must have a 


Parents and Children CX] 


conscience and a code of honor (which is the essence of re- 
ligion) even if it be only a provisional one, to be revised at 
its confirmation. For confirmation is meant to signalize a 
spiritual coming of age, and may be a repudiation. Really 
active souls have many confirmations and repudiations as 
their life deepens and their knowledge widens. But what 
is to guide the child before its first confirmation? Not 
mere orders, because orders must have a sanction of some 
sort or why should the child obey them? If, as a Secular- 
ist, you refuse to teach any sanction, vou must say “You 
will be punished if you disobey.” “Yes,” says the child 
to itself, “if I am found out; but wait until your back is 
turned and I will do as I like, and le about it.’ There 
can be no objective punishment for successful fraud; and 
as no espionage can cover the whole range of a child’s 
conduct, the upshot is that the child becomes a liar and 
sehemer with an atrophied conscience. And a good many 
of the orders given to it are not obeyed after all. Thus 
the Secularist who is not a fool is forced to appeal to the 
ehild’s vital impulse towards perfection, to the divine 
spark; and no resolution not to call this impulse an im- 
pulse of loyalty to the Fellowship of the Holy Ghost, or 
obedience to the Will of God, or any other standard theo- 
logical term, can alter the fact that the Secularist has 
stepped outside Secularism and is educating the child 
religiously, even if he insists on repudiating that pious 
adverb and substituting the word metaphysically. 


Natural Selection as a Religion 


We must make up our minds to it therefore that what- 
ever measures we may be forced to take to prevent the 
recruiting sergeants of the Churches, free or established, 
from obtaining an exclusive right of entry to schools, we 
shall not be able to exclude religion from them. ‘The 
most horrible of all religions: that which teaches us to 


cxil Parents and Children 


regard ourselves as the helpless prey of a series of senseless 
accidents called Natural Selection, is allowed and even 
welcomed in so-called secular schools because it is, in a 
sense, the negation of all religion; but for school purposes 
a religion is a belief which affects conduct; and no belief 
affects conduct more radically and often so disastrously 
as the belief that the universe is a product of Natural 
Selection. What is more, the theory of Natural Selection 
cannot be kept out of schools, because many of the natural 
facts that present the most plausible appearance of design 
can be accounted for by Natural Selection; and it would be 
so absurd to keep a child in delusive ignorance of so po- 
tent a factor in evolution as to keep it in ignorance of 
radiation or capillary attraction. Even if you make a 
religion of Natural Selection, and teach the child to regard 
itself as the irresponsible prey of its circumstances and 
appetites (or its heredity as you will perhaps call them), 
you will none the less find that its appetites are stimulated 
by your encouragement and daunted by your discourage- 
ment; that one of its appetites is an appetite for perfec- 
tion; that if you discourage this appetite and encourage 
the cruder acquisitive appetites the child will steal and 
lie and be a nuisance to you; and that if you encourage its 
appetite for perfection and teach it to attach a peculiar 
sacredness to it and place it before the other appetites, it 
will be a much nicer child and you will have a much easier 
job, at which point you will, in spite of your pseudo- 
scientific jargon, find yourself back in the old-fashioned 
religious teaching as deep as Dr. Watts and in fact 
fathoms deeper. 


Moral Instruction Leagues 


And now the voices of our Moral Instruction Leagues 
will be lifted, asking whether there is any reason why the 
appetite for perfection should not be cultivated in ration- 


Parents and Children CXUll 


ally scientific terms instead of being associated with the 
story of Jonah and the great fish and the thousand other 
tales that grow up round religions. Yes: there are many 
reasons; and one of them is that children all like the story 
of Jonah and the whale (they insist on its being a whale 
in spite of demonstrations by Bible smashers without any 
sense of humor that Jonah would not have fitted into a 
whale’s gullet—as if the story would be credible of a whale 
with an enlarged throat) and that no child on earth can 
stand moral instruction books or catechisms or any other 
statement of the case for religion in abstract terms. The 
object of a moral instruction book is not to be rational; 
scientific, exact, proof against controversy, nor even cred- 
ible: its object is to make children good; and if it makes 
them sick instead its place is the waste-paper basket. 

Take for an illustration the story of Elisha and the 
bears. To the authors of the moral instruction books it 
is in the last degree reprehensible. It is obviously not 
true as arecord of fact; and the picture it gives us of the 
temper of God (which is what interests an adult reader) 
is shocking and blasphemous. But it is a capital story for 
a child. It interests a child because it is about bears; 
and it leaves the child with an impression that children 
who poke fun at old gentlemen and make rude remarks 
about bald heads are not nice children, which is a highly 
desirable impression, and just as much as a child is capa- 
ble of receiving from the story. When a story is about 
God and a child, children take God for granted and 
criticize the child. Adults do the opposite, and are thereby 
led to talk great nonsense about the bad effect of Bible 
stories on infants. 

But let no one think that a child or anyone else can 
learn religion from a teacher or a book or by any academic 
process whatever. It is only by an unfettered aecess to 
the whole body of Fine Art: that is, to the whole body of 
inspired revelation, that we can build up that conception 


CXI1V Parents and Children 


of divinity to which all virtue is an aspiration. And to 
hope to find this body of art purified from all that is 
obsolete or dangerous or fierce or lusty, or to pick and 
choose what will be good for any particular child, much 
less for all children, is the shallowest of vanities. Such 
schoolmasterly seleetion is neither possible nor desirable. 
Ignorance of evil is not virtue but imbecility: admiring 
it is like giving a prize for honesty to a man who has not 
stolen your watch because he did not know you had one. 
Virtue chooses good from evil; and without knowledge 
there can be no choice. And even this is a dangerous sim- 
plification of what actually occurs. We are not choosing: 
we are growing. Were you to cut all of what you call the 
evil out of a child, it would drop dead. If you try to stretch 
it to full human stature when it is ten years old, you will 
simply pull it into two pieces and be hanged. And when 
you try to do this morally, which is what parents and 
schoolmasters are doing every day, you ought to be hanged; 
and some day, when we take a sensible view of the matter, 
you will be; and serve you right. The child does not stand 
between a good and a bad angel: what it has to deal with 
is a middling angel who, in normal healthy eases, wants 
to be a good angel as fast as it can without killing itself 
in the process, which is a dangerous one. 

Therefore there is no question of providing the child 
with a carefully regulated access to good art. There is no 
good art, any more than there is good anything else in 
the absolute sense. Art that is too good for the child 
will either teaeh it nothing or drive it mad, as the Bible 
has driven many people mad who might have kept their 
sanity had they been allowed to read much lower forms 
of literature. The practical moral is that we must read 
whatever stories, see whatever pictures, hear whatever 
songs and symphonies, go to whatever plays we like. We 
shall not like those which have nothing to say to us; and 
though everyone has a right to bias our choice, no one 


Parents and Children CXV 


has a right to deprive us of it by keeping us from any 
work of art or any work of art from us. 

I may now say without danger of being misunderstood 
that the popular English compromise called Cowper- 
Templeism (unsectarian Bible education) is not so silly 
as itlooks. It is true that the Bible inculcates half a dozen 
religions: some of them barbarous; some cynical and pes- 
simistic; some amoristie and romantic; some seeptical and 
challenging; some kindly, simple, and intuitional; some 
sophistieal and intellectual; none suited to the eharaeter 
and eonditions of western eivilization unless it be the 
Christianity whieh was finally suppressed by the Cruei- 
fixion, and has never been put into practice by any State 
before or sinee. But the Bible contains the ancient lit- 
erature of a very remarkable Oriental race; and the imposi- 
tion of this hterature, on whatever false pretences, on our 
ehildren left them more literate than if they knew no lit- 
erature at all, which was the practieal alternative. And 
as our Authorized Version is a great work of art as well, 
to know it was better than knowing no art, which also 
was the practical alternative. It is at least not a school 
book; and it is not a bad story book, horrible as some of 
the stories are. Therefore as between the Bible and the 
blank represented by seeular education, the choice is with 
ithe Bible. 


The Bible 


But the Bible is not sufficient. The real Bible of modern 
Europe is the whole body of great literature in which the 
inspiration and revelation of Hebrew Seripture has been 
eontinued to the present day. Nietzsehe’s Thus Spake 
Zoroaster is less comforting to the ill and unhappy than 
the Psalms; but it is much truer, subtler, and more edify- 
ing. The pleasure we get from the rhetorie of the book 
of Job and its tragic pieture of a bewildered soul cannot 
disguise the ignoble irrelevanee of the retort of God with 


CXV1 Parents and Children 


which it closes, or supply the need of such modern revcla- 
tions as Shelley’s Prometheus or The Niblung’s Ring of 
Richard Wagner. There is nothing in the Bible greater 
in inspiration than Beethoven’s ninth symphony; and 
the power of modern music to convey that inspiration to 
a modern man is far greater than that of Elizabethan 
English, which is, except for people steeped in the Bible 
from childhood like Sir Walter Scott and Ruskin, a dead 
language. 

Besides, many who have no ear for literature or for 
music are accessible to architecture, to pictures, to statues, 
to dresses, and to the arts of the stage. Every device of 
art should be brought to bear on the young; so that they 
may discover some form of it that delights them naturally; 
for there will come to all of them that period between 
dawning adolescence and full maturity when the pleasures 
and emotions of art will have to satisfy cravings which, 
if starved or insulted, may become morbid and seek dis- 
graceful satisfactions, and, if prematurely gratified other- 
wise than poetically, may destroy the stamina of the race. 
And it must be borne in mind that the most dangerous art 
for this necessary purpose is the art that presents itself 
as religious ecstasy. Young people are ripe for love long 
before they are ripe for religion. Only a very foolish person 
would substitute the Imitation of Christ for Treasure 
Island as a present for a boy or girl, or for Byron’s Don 
Juan as a present for a swain or lass. Pickwick is the 
safest saint for us in our nonage. Flaubert’s Temptation 
of St Anthony is an excellent book for a man of fifty, 
perhaps the best within reach as a healthy study of vi- 
sionary ecstasy; but for the purposes of a boy of fifteen 
Ivanhoe and the Templar make a much better saint and 
devil. And the boy of fifteen will find this out for himself 
if he is allowed to wander in a well-stocked literary garden, 
and hear bands and see pictures and spend his pennies on 
cinematograph shows. His choice may often be rather 


Parents and Children exvil 


disgusting to his elders when they want him to choose the 
best before he is ready for it. The greatest Protestant 
Manifesto ever written, as far as I know, is Houston 
Chamberlain’s Foundations of the Nineteenth Century: 
everybody eapable of it should read it. Probably the 
History of Maria Monk is at the opposite extreme of 
merit (this is a guess: [I have never read it); but it is 
eertain that a boy let loose in a library would go for Maria 
Monk and have no use whatever for Mr Chamberlain. 
I should probably have read Maria Monk myself if I had 
not had the Arabian Nights and their like to oceupy me 
better. In art, clildren, like adults, will find their level 
if they are left free to find it, and not restricted to what 
adults think good for them. Just at present our young 
people are going mad over ragtimes, apparently because 
syncopated rhythms are new to them. If they had learnt 
what can be done with syneopation from Beethoven’s 
third Leonora overture, they would enjoy the ragtimes all 
the more; but they would put them in their proper place 
as amusing vulgarities. 


Artist Idolatry 


But there are more dangerous influences than ragtimes 
waiting for people brought up in ignorance of fine art. 
Nothing is more pitiably ridiculous than the wild worship 
of artists by those who have never been seasoned in youth 
to the enchantments of art. Tenors and prima dotnas, 
pianists and violinists, actors and actresses enjoy powers 
of seduetion whieh in the middle ages would have exposed 
them to the risk of being burnt for sorcery. But as they 
exercise this power by singing, playing, and acting, no 
great harm is done exeept perhaps to themselves. Far 
graver are the powers enjoyed by brilliant persons who 
are also connoisseurs in art. ‘The influence they can ex- 
ercise on young people who have been brought up in the 


CXxvill Parents and Children 


darkness and wretchedness of a home without art, and 
in whom a natural bent towards art has always been baf- 
fled and snubbed, is incredible to those who have not 
witnessed and understood it. He (or she) who reveals 
the world of art to them opens heaven to them. They 
become satellites, disciples, worshippers of the apostle. 
Now the apostle may be a voluptuary without much con- 
science. Nature may have given him enough virtue to 
suffice in a reasonable environment. But this allowance 
may not be enough to defend him against the tempta- 
tion and demoralization of finding himself a little god 
on the strength of what ought to be a quite ordinary cul- 
ture. He may find adorers in all directions in our uncul- 
tivated society among people of stronger character than 
himself, not one of whom, if they had been artistically 
educated, would have had anything to learn from him or 
regarded him as in any way extraordinary apart from his 
actual achievements as an artist. Tartuffe is not always 
a priest. Indeed he is not always a rascal: he is often a 
weak man absurdly credited with omniscience and per- 
fection, and taking unfair advantages only because they 
are offered to him and he is too weak to refuse. Give 
everyone his culture, and no one will offer him more than 
his due. 

In thus delivering our children from the idolatry of 
the artist, we shall not destroy for them the enchantment 
of art: on the contrary, we shall teach them to demand 
art everywhere as a condition attainable by cultivating 
the body, mind, and heart. Art, said Morris, is the ex- 
pression of pleasure in work. And certainly, when work 
is made detestable by slavery, there is no art. It is only 
when learning is made a slavery by tyrannical teachers 
that art becomes loathsome to the pupil. 


Parents and Children CX1X 


“The Machine” 


When we set to work at a Constitution to secure free- 
dom for children, we had better bear in mind that the 
children may not be at all obliged to us for our pains. 
Rousseau said that men are born free; and this saying, in 
its proper bearings, was and is a great and true saying; 
yet let it not lead us into the error of supposing that all 
men long for freedom and embrace it when it is offered 
to them. On the contrary, it has to be forced on them; 
and even then they will give it the slip if it is not religiously 
inculeated and strongly safeguarded. 

Besides, men are born docile, and must in the nature of 
things remain so with regard to everything they do not 
understand. Now political science and the art of gov- 
ernment are among the things they do not understand, 
and indeed are not at present allowed to understand. 
They can be enslaved by a system, as we are at present, 
because it happens to be there, and nobody understands 
it. An intelligently worked Capitalist system, as Comte 
saw, would give us all that most of us are intelligent enough 
to want. What makes it produce such unspeakably vile 
results is that it is an automatic system which is as little 
understood by those who profit by it in money as by those 
who are starved and degraded by it: our millionaires and 
statesmen are manifestly no more “‘captains of industry” 
or scientific politicians than our bookmakers are mathe- 
maticians. For some time past a significant word has 
been coming into use as a substitute for Destiny, Fate, 
and Providence. It is “‘The Machine’’: the machine that 
has no god in it. Why do governments do nothing in spite 
of reports of Royal Commissions that establish the most 
frightful urgency? Why do our philanthropic millionaires 
do nothing, though they are ready to throw buckctfuls of 
gold into the streets? The Machine will not let them. 
Always the Machine. In short, they dont know how. 


CXx Parents and Children 


They try to reform Society as an old lady might try to 
restore a broken down locomotive by prodding it with a 
knitting needle. And this is not at all because they are 
born fools, but because they have been educated, not 
into manhood and freedom, but into blindness and slavery 
by their parents and schoolmasters, themselves the vic- 
tims of a similar misdirection, and consequently of The 
Machine. They do not want liberty. They have not 
been educated to want it. They choose slavery and in- 
equality; and all the other evils are automatically added 
to them. 

And yet we must have The Machine. It is only in un- 
skilled hands under ignorant direction that machinery is 
dangerous. We can no more govern modern communities 
without political machinery than we can feed and clothe 
them without industrial machinery. Shatter The Ma- 
chine, and you get Anarchy. And yet The Machine works 
so detestably at present that we have people who advocate 
Anarchy and call themselves Anarchists. 


The Provocation to Anarchism 


What is valid in Anarchism is that all Governments try 
to simplify their task by destroying liberty and glorifying 
authority in general and their own deeds in particular. 
But the difficulty in combining law and order with free 
institutions is not a natural one. It is a matter of incul- 
cation. If people are brought up to be slaves, it is useless 
and dangerous to let them loose at the age of twenty-one 
and say “‘Now you are free.”” No one with the tamed soul 
and broken spirit of a slave can be free. It is like saying 
to a laborer brought up on a family income of thirteen 
shillings a week, “‘ Here is one hundred thousand pounds: 
now you are wealthy.’? Nothing can make such a man 
really wealthy. Freedom and wealth are difficult and 
responsible conditions to which men must be accustomed 


Parents and Children CXX1 


and socially trained from birth. <A nation that is free at 
twenty-one is not free at all; just as a man first enriched 
at fifty remains poor all his life, even if he does not curtail 
it by drinking himself to death in the first wild ecstasy of 
being able to swallow as much as he likes for the first 
time. You cannot govern men brought up as slaves 
otherwise than as slaves are governed. You may pile 
Bills of Right and Habeas Corpus Acts on Great Charters; 
promulgate American Constitutions; burn the chateaux 
and guillotine the seigneurs; chop off the heads of kings 
and queens and set up Democracy on the ruins of feudal- 
ism: the end of it all for us is that already in the twentieth 
century there has been as much brute coercion and savage 
intolerance, as much flogging and hanging, as much im- 
pudent injustice on the bench and lustful rancor in the 
pulpit, as much naive resort to torture, persecution, and 
suppression of free speech and freedom of the press, as 
much war, as much of the vilest excess of mutilation, 
rapine, and delirious indiscriminate slaughter of helpless 
non-combatants, old and young, as much prostitution of 
professional talent, literary and political, in defence of 
manifest wrong, as much cowardly sycophancy giving 
fine names to all this villainy or pretending that it is 
“greatly exaggerated,” as we can find any record of from 
the days when the advocacy of liberty was a capital offence 
and Democracy was hardly thinkable. Democracy ex- 
hibits the vanity of Louis XIV, the savagery of Peter of 
Russia, the nepotism and provinciality of Napoleon, the 
fickleness of Catherine IT: in short, all the childishnesses 
of all the despots without any of the qualities that enabled 
the greatest of them to fascinate and dominate their 
contemporaries. 

And the flatterers of Democracy are as impudently 
servile to the successful, and insolent to common honest 
folk, as the flatterers of the monarchs. Democracy in 
America has led to the withdrawal of ordinary refined 


CXXil Parents and Children 


persons from politics; and the same result is coming in 
England as fast as we make Democracy as democratic as 
it is in America. This is true also of popular religion: it 
is so horribly irreligious that nobody with the smallest 
pretence to culture, or the least inkling of what the great 
prophets vainly tried to make the world understand, will 
have anything to do with it except for purely secular 
reasons. 


Imagination 


_Before we can clearly understand how baleful is this 
condition of intimidation in which we live, it is necessary 
to clear up the confusion made by our use of the word 
imagination to denote two very different powers of mind. 
One is the power to imagine things as they are not: this 
I call the romantic imagination. The other is the power 
to imagine things as they are without actually sensing 
them; and this I will call the realistic imagination. Take 
for example marriage and war. One man has a vision of 
perpetual bliss with a domestic angel at home, and of 
flashing sabres, thundering guns, vietorious cavalry 
charges, and routed enemies in the field. That is romantic 
imagination; and the mischief it does is incalculable. It 
begins in silly and selfish expectations of the impossible, 
and ends in spiteful disappointment, sour grievance, 
cynicism, and misanthropic resistance to any attempt to 
better a hopeless world. The wise man knows that imag- 
ination is not only a means of pleasing himself and beguil- 
ing tedious hours with romances and fairy tales and fools’ 
paradises (a quite defensible and delightful amusement 
when you know exactly what you are doing and where 
fancy ends and facts begin), but also a means of foreseeing 
and being prepared for realities as yet unexperienced, 
and of testing the possibility and desirability of serious 
Utopias. He does not expect his wife to be an angel; nor 
does he overlook the facts that war depends on the rous- 


Parents and Children — CXXIll 


ing of all the murderous blackguardism still latent in 
mankind; that every victory means a defeat; that fatigue, 
hunger, terror, and disease are the raw material which 
romancers work up into military glory; and that soldiers 
for the most part go to war as children go to school, be- 
cause they are afraid not to. They are afraid even to say 
they are afraid, as such candor is punishable by death in 
the military code. 

A very little realistic imagination gives an ambitious 
person enormous power over the multitudinous victims 
of the romantic imagination. For the romancer not only 
pleases himself with fictitious glories: he also terrifies 
himself with imaginary dangers. He does not even pic- 
ture what these dangers are: he conceives the unknown 
as always dangerous. When you say to a realist ‘You 
must do this” or “‘You must not do that,” he instantly 
asks what will happen to him if he does (or does not, as 
the case may be). Failing an unromantic convincing 
answer, he does Just as he pleases unless he can find for 
himself a real reason for refraining. In short, though you 
can intimidate him, you cannot bluff him. But you can 
always bluff the romantic person: indeed his grasp of real 
considerations is so feeble that you find it necessary to 
bluff him even when you have solid considerations to 
offer him instead. The campaigns of Napoleon, with 
their atmosphere of glory, illustrate this. In the Rus- 
sian campaign Napoleon’s marshals achieved miracles of 
bluff, especially Ney, who, with a handful of men, mon- 
strously outnumbered, repeatedly kept the Russian troops 
paralyzed with terror by pure bounce. Napoleon himself, 
much more a realist than Ney (that was why he dominated 
him), would probably have surrendered; for sometimes 
the bravest of the brave will achieve successes never at- 
tempted by the cleverest of the clever. Wellington was 
a completer realist than Napoleon. It was impossible to 
persuade Wellington that he was beaten until he actually 


CXXIV Parents and Children 


was beaten. He was unbluffable; and if Napoleon had 
understood the nature of Wellington’s strength instead 
of returning Wellington’s snobbish contempt for him by 
an academic contempt for Wellington, he would not have 
left the attack at Waterloo to Ney and D’Erlon, who, on 
that field, did not know when they were beaten, whereas 
Wellington knew precisely when he was not beaten. The 
unbluffable would have triumphed anyhow, probably, 
because Napoleon was an academic soldier, doing the aca- 
demic thing (the attack in columns and so forth) with 
superlative ability and energy; whilst Wellington was an 
original soldier who, instead of outdoing the terrible aca- 
demic columns with still more terrible and academic 
columns, outwitted them with the thin red line, not of 
heroes, but, as this uncompromising realist never hesitated 
to testify, of the scum of the earth. 


Government by Bullies 


These picturesque martial incidents are being repro- 
duced every day in our ordinary life. We are bluffed by 
hardy simpletons and headstrong bounders as the Russians 
were bluffed by Ney; and our Wellingtons are threadbound 
by slave-democracy as Gulliver was threadbound by the 
Lilliputians. We are a mass of people living in a submis- 
sive routine to which we have been drilled from our 
childhood. When you ask us to take the simplest step 
outside that routine, we say shyly, “‘Oh, I really couldnt,” 
or “Oh, I shouldnt like to,” without being able to point 
out the smallest harm that could possibly ensue: victims, 
not of a rational fear of real dangers, but of pure abstract 
fear, the quintessence of cowardice, the very negation of 
“the fear of God.” Dotted about among us are a few 
spirits relatively free from this inculeated paralysis, 
sometimes because they are half-witted, sometimes be- 
cause they are unscrupulously selfish, sometimes because 


Parents and Children CXXV 


they are realists as to money and unimaginative as to 
other things, sometimes even because they are exception- 
ally able, but always because they are not afraid of shad- 
ows nor oppressed with nightmares. And we see these 
few rising as if by magic into power and affluence, and 
forming, with the millionaires who have accidentally 
gained huge riches by the occasional windfalls of our com- 
merce, the governing class. Now nothing is more disas- 
trous than a governing class that does not know how to 
govern. And how can this rabble of the casual products 
of luck, cunning, and folly, be expected to know how to 
govern? The merely lucky ones and the hereditary ones 
do not owe their position to their qualifications at all. 
As to the rest, the realism which seems their essential 
qualification often eonsists not only in a lack of romantic 
imagination, which lack is a merit, but of the realistic, 
constructive, Utopian imagination, which lack is a ghastly 
defect. Freedom from imaginative illusion is therefore 
no guarantee whatever of nobility of character: that is 
why inculeated submissiveness makes us slaves to people 
much worse than ourselves, and why it is so important 
that submissiveness should no longer be inculcated. 

And yet as long as you have the compulsory school as 
we know it, we shall have submissiveness inculcated. 
What is*more, until the active hours of child life are organ- 
ized separately from the active hours of adult life, so that 
adults can enjoy the society of children in reason without 
being tormented, disturbed, harried, burdened, and hind- 
ered in their work by them as they would be nowif there 
were no compulsory schools and no children hypnotized 
into the belief that they must tamely go to them and be 
imprisoned and beaten and over-tasked in them, we shall 
have schools under one pretext or another; and we shall 
have all the evil consequences and all the social hopeless- 
ness that result from turning a nation of potential freemen 
and freewomen into a nation of two-legged spoilt spaniels 


CXXVI1 Parents and Children 


with everything crushed out of their nature except dread 
of the whip. Liberty is the breath of life to nations; and 
liberty is the one thing that parents, schoolmasters, and 
rulers spend their lives in extirpating for the sake of an 
immediately quiet and finally disastrous life. 


MISALLIANCE 
XXI 


1910 








MISALLIANCE 


Johnny Tarleton, an ordinary young business man of 
thirty or less, is taking his weekly Friday to Tuesday in the 
house of his father, John Tarleton, who has made a great deal 
of money out of Tarleton’s Underwear. The house is in 
Surrey, on the slope of Hindhead; and Johniy, reclining, 
novel in hand, in a swinging chatr with a little awning above 
at, 1s enshrined in a spacious half hemisphere of glass which 
forms a pavilion commanding the garden, and, beyond it, a 
barren but lovely landscape of hill profile with fir trees, com- 
mons of bracken and gorse, and wonderful cloud pictures. 

The glass pavilion springs from a bridgelike arch in the 
wall of the house, through which one comes into a big hall with 
tiled flooring, which suggests that the proprietor’s notion of 
domestic luxury 1s founded on the lounges of week-end hotels. 
The arch vs not quite in the centre of the wall. There 1s more 
wall to tis right than to its left, and this space ts occupied by 
a hat rack and umbrella stand in which tennis rackets, white 
parasols, caps, Panama hats, and other summery articles are 
bestowed. Just through the arch at this corner stands a new 
portable Turkish bath, recently unpacked, with rts crate be- 
side tt, and on the crate the drawn nails and the hammer used 
en unpacking. Near the crate are open boxes of garden games: 
bowls and croquet. Nearly in the middle of the glass wall of 
the pavilion 1s a door giving on the garden, with a couple of 
steps to surmount the hot-water pipes which skirt the glass. 
At intervals round the pavilion are marble pillars with speci- 
mens of Viennese pottery on them, very flamboyant tn colour 
and florid in destgn. Between them are folded garden chairs 
flung anyhow against the pipes. In the side walls are two 
doors: one near the hat stand, leading to the interior of the 

3 ; 


a 


4, Misalliance 


house, the other on the opposite side and at the other end, lead- 
ang to the vestibule. 

There is no solid furniture except a sideboard which stands 
against the wall between the vestibule door and the pavilion, a 
small writing table with a blotter, a rack for telegram forms 
and stationery, and a wastepaper basket, standing out in the 
hall near the sideboard, and a lady’s worktable, with two 
chairs at it, towards the other side of the lounge. The writing 
table has also two chairs at it. On the sideboard there ts a 
tantalus, liqueur bottles, a syphon, a glass jug of lemonade, 
tumblers, and every convenience for casual drinking. Also a 
plate of sponge cakes, and a highly ornate punchbowl in the 
same style as the keramic display in the pavilion. Wicker 
chairs and little bamboo tables with ash trays and boxes of 
matches on them are scattered in all directions. In the pavitl- 
zon, which is flooded with sunshine, is the elaborate patent 
swing seat and awning in which Johnny reclines with his 
novel. There are two wicker chairs right and left of him. 

Bentley Summerhays, oue of those smallish, thinskinned 
youths, who from 17 to 70 retain unaltered the mental airs of 
the later and the physical appearance of the earlier age, ap- 
pears in the garden and comes through the glass door into the 
pavilion. Heis unmistakably a grade above Johnny socially; 
and though he looks sensitive enough, his assurance and his 
high voice are a little exasperating. 


JoHNNY. Hallo! Wheres your luggage? 

Bent Ley. I left it at the station. Ive walked up from 
Haslemere. [He goes to the hat stand and hangs up his hat}. 

JOHNNY [shortly] Oh! And who’s to fetch it? 

BentuLey. Dont know. Dont care. Providence, prob- 
ably. If not, your mother will have it fetched. 

JOHNNY. Not her business, exactly, is it? 

BENTLEY [returning to the pavilion] Of course not. Thats 
why one loves her for doing it. Look here: chuck away 
your silly week-end novel, and talk to a chap. After a 


Misalliance 5 


week in that filthy office my brain is simply blue-mouldy. 
Lets argue about something intellectual. [He throws him- 
self into the wicker chair on Johnny’s right]. 

Jounny [straightening up in the swing with a yell of pro- 
test] No. Now seriously, Bunny, Ive come down here to 
have a pleasant week-end; and I’m not going to stand your 
confounded arguments. If you want to argue, get out of 
this and go over to the Congregationalist minister’s. He’s 
a nailer at arguing. He likes it. 

BENTLEY. You cant argue with a person when his liveli- 
hood depends on his not letting you convert him. And 
would you mind not calling me Bunny. My name is 
Bentley Summerhays, which you please. 

JOHNNY. Whats the matter with Bunny? 

BentLey. It puts mein a false position. Have you ever 
considered the fact that I was an afterthought? 

Jounny. An afterthought? What do you mean by 
that? 

BENTLEY. I— 

Jounny. No, stop: I dont want to know. It’s only a 
dodge to start an argument. 

BENTLEY. Dont be afraid: it wont overtax your brain. 
My father was 44 when I was born. My mother was 41. 
There was twelve years between me and the next eldest. 
I was unexpected. I was probably unintentional. My 
brothers and sisters are not the least like me. Theyre the 
regular thing that you always get in the first batch from 
young parents: quite pleasant, ordinary, do-the-regular- 
thing sort: all body and no brains, like you. 

JOHNNY. Thank you. 

BENTLEY. Dont mention it, old chap. Now I’m differ- 
ent. By the time I was born, the old couple knew some- 
thing. So I came out all brains and no more body than is 
absolutely necessary. I am really a good deal older than 
you, though you were born ten years sooner. Everybody 
feels that when they hear us talk; consequently, though 


6 Misalliance 


it’s quite natural to hear me calling you Johnny, it sounds 
ridiculous and unbecoming for you to call me Bunny. 
[He rises]. 

JOHNNY. Does it, by George? You stop me doing it if 
you can: thats all. 

BentTiLEy. If you go on doing it after Ive asked you not, 
cyoull feel an awful swine. [He strolls away carelessly to the 
sideboard with his eye on the sponge cakes}. At least I should; 
but I suppose youre not so particular. 

Jounny [rising vengefully and following Bentley, who is 
forced to turn and listen] Tl tell you what it is, my boy: 
you want a good talking to; and I’m going to give it to 
you. If you think that because your father’s a K.C.B., 
and you want to marry my sister, you can make yourself as 
nasty as you please and say what you like, youre mistaken. 
Let me tell you that except Hypatia, not one person in 
this house is in favor of her marrying you; and I dont 
believe shes happy about it herself. The match isnt set- 
tled yet: dont forget that. Youre on trial in the office be- 
cause the Governor isnt giving his daughter money for an 
idle man to live on her. Youre on trial here because my 
mother thinks a girl should know what a man is like in 
the house before she marries him. Thats been going on 
for two months now; and whats the result? Youve got 
yourself thoroughly disliked in the office; and youre get- 
ting yourself thoroughly disliked here, all through your 
bad manners and your conceit, and the damned impu- 
dence you think clever. 

BentTueEyY [deeply wounded and trying hard to control him- 
self] Thats enough, thank you. You dont suppose, I hope, 
that I should have come down if I had known that that was 
how you felt about me. [He makes for the vestibule door]. 

Jounny [collaring him]. No: you dont run away. [’m 
going to have this out with you. Sit down: d’y’ hear? 
[Bentley attempts to go with dignity. Johnny slings him into 
a chair at the writing table, where he sits, bitterly humiliated, 


Misalliance 7 


but afracd to speak lest he should burst into tears]. Thats the 
advantage of having more body than brains, you see: it 
enables me to teach you manners; and I’m going to do it 
too. Youre a spoilt young pup; and you need a jolly good 
licking. And if youre not careful youll get it: Pll see to 
that next time you call me a swine. 

BentiLeEy. I didnt call you a swine. But [bursting into a 
fury of tears] you are a swine: youre a beast: youre a 
brute: youre a cad: youre a lar: youre a bully: I should 
like to wring your damned neck for you. 

JOHNNY [with a derisive laugh| Try it, my son. [Bent- 
ley gives an tnarticulate sob of rage]. Fighting isnt in your 
line. Youre too small and youre too childish. I always sus- 
pected that your cleverness wouldnt come to very much 
when it was brought up against something solid: some 
decent chap’s fist, for instance. 

BentLey. I hope your beastly fist may come up against 
a mad bull or a prizefighter’s nose, or something solider 
than me. I dont care about your fist; but if everybody 
here dislikes me— [he ts checked by a sob]. Well, I dont 
care. [Trying to recover himself| ’'m sorry I intruded: I 
didnt know. [Breaking down again] Oh yon beast! you 
pig! Swine, swine, swine, swine, swine! Now! 

Jounny. All right, my lad, all right. Sling your mud as 
hard as you please: it wont stick to me. What I want to 
know is this. How is it that your father, who I suppose is 
the strongest man England has produced in our time— 

BentTLeEY. You got that out of your halfpenny paper. A 
lot you know about him! 

Jounny. I dont set up to be able to do anything but 
admire him and appreciate him and be proud of him as an 
Englishman. If it wasnt for my respect for him, I wouldnt 
have stood your cheek for two days, let alone two months. 
But what I eant understand is why he didnt liek it out of 
you when you were a kid. For twenty-five years he kept 
a place twice as big as England in order: a place full of 


8 Misalliance 


seditious coffee-colored heathens and pestilential white 
agitators in the middle of a lot of savage tribes. And yet 
he couldnt keep you in order. I dont set up to be half the 
man your father undoubtedly is; but, by George, it’s lucky 
for you you were not my son. I dont hold with my own 
father’s views about corporal punishment being wrong. 
It’s necessary for some people; and I’d have tried it on you 
until you first learnt to howl and then to behave yourself. 

BENTLEY [contemptuously| Yes: behavior wouldnt come 
naturally to your son, would it? 

JouNNyY [stung into sudden violence] Now you keep a civil 
tongue in your head. Jl stand none of your snobbery. 
I’m just as proud of Tarleton’s Underwear as you are of 
your father’s title and his K.C.B., and all the rest of it. 
My father began in a little hole of a shop in Leeds no bigger 
than our pantry down the passage there. He— 

BrentLEY. Ob yes: J know. Ive read it. ‘*The Ro- 
mance of Business, or The Story of Tarleton’s Underwear. 
Please Take One!” I took one the day after I first met 
Hypatia. I went and bought half a dozen unshrinkable 
vests for her sake. 

JOHNNY. Well: did they shrink? 

BENTLEY. Oh, dont be a fool. 

JOHNNY. Never mind whether I’m a fool or not. Did 
they shrink? Thats the point. Were they worth the 
money? 

BENTLEY. I couldnt wear them: do you think my skin’s 
as thick as your customers’ hides? I’d as soon have 
dressed myself in a nutmeg grater. 

JoHNNY. Pity your father didnt give your thin skin a 
jolly good lacing with a cane—! 

Bentzuey. Pity you havnt got more than one idea! If 
you want to know, they did try that on me once, when I 
was a small kid. A silly governess did it. I yelled fit to 
bring down the house and went into convulsions and brain 
fever and that sort of thing for three weeks. So the old 


Misalliance 9 


girl got the sack; and serve her right! After that, I was 
let do what [ like. My father didnt want me to grow up 
a broken-spirited spaniel, which is your idea of a man, I 
suppose. 

JOHNNY. Jolly good thing for you that my father made 
you come into the office and shew what you were made of. 
And it didnt come to much: let me tell you that. When 
the Governor asked me where I thought we ought to put 
you, I said, “Make him the Office Boy.’? The Governor 
said you were too green. And so you were. 

BrentTueEy. I daresay. So would you be pretty green if 
you were shoved into my father’s set. I picked up your 
silly business in a fortnight. Youve been at it ten years; 
and you havnt picked it up yet. — 

JOHNNY. Dont talk rot, child. You know you simply 
make me pity you. 

Bentiey. “‘Romance of Business’? indeed! The real 
romance of Tarleton’s business is the story that you under- 
stand anything about it. You never could explain any 
mortal thing about it to me when I asked you. ‘“‘See what 
was done the last time”: that was the beginning and the 
end of your wisdom. Youre nothing but a turnspit. 

JoHnny. A what! 

BenTLEY. A turnspit. If your father hadnt made a 
roasting jack for you to turn, youd be earning twenty-four 
shillings a week behind a counter. ° 

JouNNY. If you dont take that back and apologize for 
your bad manners, I'll give you as good a hiding as ever — 

BENTLEY. Help! Johnny’s beating me! Oh! Murder! 
[He throws himself on the ground, uttering piereing yells]. 

JOHNNY. Dont be a fool. Stop that noise, will you. 
I’m not going to touch you. Sh—sh— 

ITypatia rushes in through the inner door, followed by Mrs 
Tarleton, and throws herself on her knees by Bentley. Mrs 
Tarleton, whose knees are stiffer, bends over him and tries to 
lifthim. Mrs Tarleton is a shrewd and motherly old lady who 


10 Misalliance 


has been pretty in her time, and ts still very pleasant and like- 
able and unaffected. Hypatia is a typical English girl of a 
sort never called typical: that is, she has an opaque white 
skin, black hair, large dark eyes with black brows and lashes, 
curved lips, swift glances and movements that flash out of a 
waiting stillness, boundless energy and audacity held rn leash. 

Hypatia [pouncing on Bentley with no very gentle hand] 
Bentley: whats the matter? Dont cry lke that: whats 
the use? Whats happened? 

Mrs Tarueton. Are you ill, child? [They get him up]. 
There, there, pet! It’s all right: dont ery [they put him 
anto a chair|: there! there! there! Johnny will go for the 
doctor; and he'll give you something nice to make it well. 

Hypatia. What has happened, Johnny? 

Mrs Taruteton. Was it a wasp? 

BENTLEY [2mpatiently| Wasp be dashed! 

Mrs Tariteton. Oh Bunny! that was a naughty word. 

BentLey. Yes, I know: I beg your pardon. [He rises, 
and extricates himself from them| Thats all right. Johnny 
frightened me. You know how easy it is to hurt me; and 
I’m too small to defend myself against Johnny. 

Mrs Tarueton. Johnny: how often have I told you 
that you must not bully the little ones. I thought youd 
outgrown all that. 

Hypatta [angrily] I do declare, mamma, that Johnny’s 
brutality makes it impossible to live in the house with him. 

JOUNNY [deeply hurt] It’s twenty-seven years, mother, 
since you had that row with me for licking Robert and 
giving Hypatia a black eye because she bit me. I prom- 
ised you then that I’d never raise my hand to one of them 
again; and Ive never broken my word. And now because 
this young whelp begins to cry out before he’s hurt, you 
treat me as if I were a brute and a savage. 

Mrs Tarxetron. No dear, not a savage; but you know 
you must not call our visitor naughty names. 

Brentiey. Oh, let him alone— 


Misalliance 11 


Jounny [fiercely] Dont you interfere between my 
mother and me: d’y’ hear? 

Hypatta. Johnny’s lost his temper, mother. We'd 
better go. Come, Bentley. 

Mrs Tarueton. Yes: that will be best. [To Bentley] 
Johnny doesnt mean any harm, dear: he'll be himself 
presently. Come. 

The two ladies go out through the inner door with Bentley, 
who turns at the door to grin at Johnny as he goes out. 

Johnny, left alone, clenches his fists and grinds his teeth, but 
can find no relief in that way for his rage. After choking and 
stamping for a moment, he makes for the vestibule door. It 
opens before he reaches it; and Lord Summerhays comes in. 
Johnny glares at him, speechless. Lord Summerhays takes 
in the situation, and quickly takes the punchbowl from the 
sideboard and offers tt to Johnny. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Smash it. Dont hesitate: it’s an 
ugly thing. Smash it: hard. [Johnny, with a stifled yell, 
dashes it in pieces, and then sits down and mops hts brow]. 
Feel better now? [Johnny nods]. I know only one person 
alive who could drive me to the point of having either to 
break china or commit murder; and that person is my son 
Bentley. Was it he? [Johnny nods again, not yet able to 
speak]. As the car stopped I heard a yell which is only too 
familiar to me. It generally means that some infuriated 
person is trying to thrash Bentley. Nobody has ever suc- 
ceeded, though almost everybody has tried. [He seats him- 
self comfortably close to the writing table, and sets to work to 
collect the fragments of the punchbowl in the wastepaper 
basket whilst Johnny, with diminishing difficulty, collects 
himself]. Bentley is a problem whieh I confess I have 
never been able to solve. He was born to be a great success 
at the age of fiftv. Most Englishmen of his class seem to 
be born to be great successes at the age of twenty-four at 
most. The domestie problem for me is how to endure 
Bentley until he is fifty. The problem for the nation is 


12 Misalliance 


how to get itself governed by men whose growth is arrested 
when they are little more than college lads. Bentley 
doesnt really mean to be offensive. You can always make 
him ery by telling him you dont like him. Only, he cries 
so loud that the experiment should be made in the open 
air: in the middle of Salisbury Plain if possible. He has a 
hard and penetrating intellect and a remarkable power of 
looking facts in the face; but unfortunately, being very 
young, he has no idea of how very little of that sort of 
thing most of us can stand. On the other hand, he is 
frightfully sensitive and even affectionate; so that he 
probably gets as much as he gives in the way of hurt feel- 
ings. Youll excuse me rambling on like this about my 
son. 

JOHNNY [who has pulled himself together] You did it on 
purpose. I wasnt quite myself: I needed a moment to 
pull round: thank you. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Notatall. Is your father at home? 

JOHNNY. No: he’s:opening one of his free libraries. 
Thats another nice little penny gone. He’s mad on read- 
ing. He promised another free library last week. It’s 
ruinous. Itll hit you as well as me when Bunny marries 
Hypatia. When all Hypatia’s money is thrown away on 
libraries, where will Bunny come in? Cant you stop 
him? 

Lorp SumMeErnHAys. I’m afraid not. Hes a perfect 
whirlwind. Indefatigable at public work. Wonderful 
man, I think. 

JOHNNY. Oh, public work! He does too much of it. 
It’s really a sort of laziness, getting away from your own 
serious business to amuse yourself with other people’s. 
Mind: I dont say there isnt another side to it. It has 
its value as an advertisement. It makes useful acquaint- 
ances and leads to valuable business connections. But 
it takes his mind off the main chance; and he over- 
does it. 


Misalliance 13 


Lorp SuMMERHAYS. The danger of public business is , 
that it never ends. A man may kill himself at it. 

JOHNNY. Or he can spend more on it than it brings 
him in: thats how I look at it. What I say is that every- 
body’s business is nobody’s business. I hope I’m not a 
hard man, nor a narrow man, nor unwilling to pay reason- 
able taxes, and subscribe in reason to deserving charities, 
and even serve on a jury in my turn; and no man cau say 
T ever refused to help a friend out of a difficulty when he 
was worth helping. But when you ask me to go beyond 
that, I tell you frankly I dont see it. I never did see it, 
even when I was only a boy, and had to pretend to take 
in all the ideas the Governor fed me up with. I didnt see 
it; and I dont see it. 

Lorp SumMeEruAys. There is certainly no business 
reason why you should take more than your share of the 
world’s work. 

JOHNNY. Solsay. It’s really a great encouragement to 
we to find you agree with me. For of course if nobody 
agrees with you, how are you to know that youre not a 
fool? 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Quite so. 

JOHNNY. I wish youd talk to him about it. It’s no use 
my saying anything: Pm a child to him still: I have no 
influence. Besides, you know how to handle men. See 
how you handled me when I was making a fool of myself 
about Bunny! 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Not at all. 

JOUNNY. Oh yes I was: I know I was. Well, if my 
blessed father had come in he’d have told me to control 
myself. As if I was losing my temper on purpose! 

Bentley returns, newly washed. He beams when he sees his 
father, and comes affectionately behind him and pats him on 
the shoulders. 

Bentiey. Hel-lo, commander! have you come? Ive 
been making a filthy silly ass of myself here. Pm awfully 


14 Misalliance 


sorry, Johnny, old chap: I beg your pardon. Why dont 
you kick me when I go on hike that? 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. As we came through Godalming I 
thought I heard some yelling— 

Bentiey. I should think you did. Johnny was rather 
rough on me, though. He told me nobody here liked me; 
and I was silly enough to believe him. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYsS. And all the women have been kiss- 
ing you and pitying you ever since to stop your crying, I 
suppose. Baby! 

Bentwey. Ididery. But Ialways feel good after crying: 
it relieves my wretched nerves. I feel perfectly jolly now. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Not at all ashamed of yourself, for 
instance? 

Benttey. If I started being ashamed of myself I 
shouldnt have time for anything else all my life. Isay: I 
feel very fit and spry. Lets all go down and meet the 
Grand Cham. [He goes to the hatstand and takes down his 
hat}. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Does Mr Tarleton like to be called 
the Grand Cham, do you think, Bentley? 

BentLey. Well, he thinks hes too modest for it. He 
ealls himself Plain John. But you cant cal! him that in 
his own office: besides, it doesnt suit him: it’s not flam- 
boyant enough. 

JOHNNY. Flam what? 

BENTLEY. Flamboyant. Lets go and meet him. Hes 
telephoned from Guildford to say hes on the road. The 
dear old son is always telephoning or telegraphing: he 
thinks hes hustling along lke anything when hes only 
sending unnecessary messages. 

Lorp SumMMmeERHAYS. Thank you: I should prefer a 
quiet afternoon. 

BentiLey. Right O. I shant press Johnny: hes had 
enough of me for one week-end. [He goes out through the 
pavilion into the grounds]. 


Misalliance 15 


JOHNNY. Not a bad idea, that. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. What? 

JOHNNY. Going to meet the Governor. You know you 
wouldnt think it; but the Governor likes Bunny rather. 
And Bunny is cultivating it. I shouldnt be surprised if 
he thought he could squeeze me out one of these days. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. You dont say so! Young raseal! 
I want to consult you about him, if you dont mind. Shall 
we stroll over to the Gibbet? Bentley is too fast for me as 
a walking companion; but I should like a short turn. 

JOHNNY [rising eagerly, highly flattered] Right you are. 
Thatll suit me down to the ground. [Ie takes a Panama 
and stick from the hat stand]. 

Mrs Tarleton and Hypatia come baek just as the two men 
are goung out. Hypatia salutes Summerhays from a distanee 
with an enigmatie lift of her eyelids in his direction and a 
demure nod before she sits down at the worktable and busies 
herself with her needle. Mrs Tarleton, hospitably fussy, goes 
over to him. 

Mrs Taruteton. Oh, Lord Summerhays, I didnt know 
you were here. Wont you have some tea? 

Lorp SumMEeruHAyYsS. No, thank you: I’m not allowed 
tea. And I’m ashamed to say Ive knocked over your 
beautiful puneh-bowl. You must let me replace it. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, it doesnt matter: I’m only too 
glad to be rid of it. The shopman told me it was in the 
best taste; but when my poor old nurse Martha got catar- 
aet, Bunny said it was a merciful provision of Nature to 
prevent her seeing our china. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYsS [gravely] That was exceedingly rude 
of Bentley, Mrs Tarleton. I hope you told him so. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, bless you! I dont eare what he 
says; so long as he says it to me and not before visitors. 

JOHNNY. We’re going out for a stroll, mother. 

Mrs Tar.eton. Allright: dont let us keep you. Never 
mind about that eroek: I'll get the girl to come and take 


16 Misalliance 


the pieces away. [Recollecting herself} There! Ive done 
it again! 

JouHNNy. Done what? 

Mrs TAarueton. Called her the girl. You know, Lord 
Summerhays, its a funny thing; but now I’m getting old, 
I’m dropping back into all the ways John and I had when 
we had barely a hundred a year. You should have known 
me when I was forty! I talked like a duchess; and if 
Johnny or Hypatia let slip a word that was like old times, 
I was down on them like anything. And now I’m begin- 
ning to do it myself at every turn. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. There comes a time when all that 
seems to matter so little. Even queens drop the mask 
when they reach our time of life. 

Mrs Tarueton. Let you alone for giving a thing a 
pretty turn! Youre a humbug, you know, Lord Summer- 
hays. John doesnt know it; and Johnny doesnt know it; 
but you and I know it, dont we? Now thats something that 
even you cant answer; so be off with you for your walk 
without another word. 

Lord Summerhays smiles; bows; and goes out through the 
vestibule door, followed by Johnny. Mrs Tarleton sits down 
at the worltable and takes out her darning materials and one 
of her husband’s socks. Hypatia ts at the other side of the 
table, on her mother’s right. They chat as they work. 

Hypatra. I wonder whether they laugh at us when they 
are by themselves! 

Mrs Tarueton. Who? 

Hypatra. Bentley and his father and all the toffs in 
their set. 

Mrs Tarteton. Oh, thats only their way. I used to 
think that the aristocracy were a nasty sneering lot, and 
that they were laughing at me and John. Theyre always 
giggling aud pretending not to care much about anything. 
But you get used to it: theyre the same to one another and 
to everybody. Besides, what does it matter what they 


Misalliance 17 


think? It’s far worse when theyre civil, because that al- 
ways means that they want you to lend them money; and 
you must never do that, Hypatia, because they never pay. 
How can they? They dont make anything, you see. Of 
course, if you can make up your mind to regard it as a 
gift, thats different; but then they generally ask you 
again; and you may as well say no first as last. You 
neednt be afraid of the aristocracy, dear: theyre only 
human creatures like ourselves after all; and youll hold 
your own with them easy enough. 

Hypatia. Oh, I’m not a bit afraid of them, I assure 
you. 

Mrs Tar.eton. Well, no, not afraid of them, exactly; 
but youve got to pick up their ways. You know, dear, I 
never quite agreed with your father’s notion of keeping 
clear of them, and sending you to a school that was so 
expensive that they couldnt afford to send their daughters 
there; so that all the girls belonged to big business fami- 
hes like ourselves. It takes all sorts to make a world; and 
I wanted you to see a little of all sorts. When you marry 
Bunny, and go among the women of his father’s set, theyll 
shock you at first. 

Hypatia [incredulously] How? 

Mrs Tarueton. Well, the things they talk about. 

Hypatia. Oh! scandalmongering? 

Mrs Taruteton. Oh no: we all do that: thats only 
human nature. But you know theyve no notion of 
decency. I shall never forget the first day I spent with a 
marchioness, two duchesses, and no end of Ladies This and 
That. Of course it was only a committee: theyd put me 
on to get a big subscription out of John. I’d never heard 
such talk in my life. The things they mentioned! And it 
was the marchioness that started it. 

Hypatra. What sort of things? 

Mrs Tarueton. Drainage!! She’d tried three systems 
in her castle; and she was going to do away with them 


18 Misalliance 


all and try another. I didnt know which way to look when 
she began talking about it: I thought theyd all have got 
up and gone out of the room. But not a bit of it, if you 
please. They were all just as bad as she. They all had 
systems; and each of them swore by her own system. I 
sat there with my cheeks burning until one of the duchesses, 
thinking I looked out of it, I suppose, asked me what 
system I had. I said I was sure I knew nothing about such 
things, and hadnt we better change the subject. Then the 
fat was in the fire, I can tell you. There was a regular 
terror of a countess with an anaerobic system; and she told 
me, downright brutally, that I'd better learn something 
about them before my children died of diphtheria. That 
was just two months after Pd buried poor little Bobby; 
and that was the very thing he died of, poor little lamb! 
I burst out crying: I couldnt help it. It was as good 
as telling me I’d killed my own child. I had to go away; 
but before I was out of the door one of the duchesses— 
quite a young woman—began talking about what sour 
milk did in her inside and how she expected to live to be 
over a hundred if she took it regularly. And me listening 
to her, that had never dared to think that a duchess could 
have anything so common as an inside! I shouldnt have 
minded if it had been children’s insides: we have to talk 
about them. But grown-up people! I was glad to get 
away that time. 

Hypatta. There was a physiology and hygiene class 
started at school; but of course none of our girls were let 
attend it. 

Mrs Tarueton. If it had been an aristocratic school 
plenty would have attended it. Thats what theyre like: 
theyve nasty minds. With really nice good women a thing 
is either decent or indecent; and if it’s indecent, we just 
dont mention it or pretend to know about it; and theres 
an end of it. But all the aristocracy cares about is whether 
it can get any good out of the thing. Theyre what Johnny 


Misalliance 19 


calls cynical-like. And of course nobody can say a word 
to them for it. Theyre so high up that they can do and 
say what they like. 

Hypatia. Well, I think they might leave the drains to 
their husbands. I shouldnt think much of a man that left 
such things to me. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, dont think that, dear, whatever 
you do. I never let on about it to you; but it’s me that 
takes care of the drainage here. After what that countess 
said to me I wasnt going to lose another child or trust John. 
And I don’t want my grandchildren to die any more than 
my children. 

Hypatia. Do you think Bentley will ever be as big a 
man as his father? I dont mean clever: I mean big and 
strong. 

Mrs Taruretron. Not he. Hes overbred, like one of 
those expensive little dogs. I like a bit of a mongrel my- 
self, whether it’s a man or a dog: theyre the best for 
everyday. But we all have our tastes: whats one woman’s 
meat is another woman’s poison. Bunny’s a dear little 
fellow; but I never could have fancied him for a husband 
when I was your age. 

Hypatra. Yes; but he has some brains. Hes not like 
all the rest. One can’t have everything. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, youre quite right, dear: quite 
right. It’s a great thing to have brains: look what it’s 
done for your father! Thats the reason I never said a word 
when youn jilted poor Jerry Mackintosh. 

Hypatia [excusing herself] I really eouldnt stick it out 
with Jerry, mother. I know you liked him; and nobody 
ean deny that hes a splendid animal— 

Mrs Tar eton [shocked] Hypatia! How ean you! The 
things that girls say nowadays! 

Hypatia. Well, what else can you call him? If I'd 
been deaf or he’d been dumb, I could have married him. 
But living with father, Ive got accustomed to cleverness. 


20 Misalliance 


Jerry would drive me mad: you know very well hes a 
fool: even Johnny thinks him a fool. 

Mrs Tarueton [wp in arms at once in defence of her boy] 
Now dont begin about my Johnny. You know it annoys 
me. Johnny’s as clever as anybody else in his own way. 
I dont say hes as clever as you in some ways; but hes a 
man, at all events, and not a little squit of a thing like 
your Bunny. 

Hypatra. Oh, I say nothing against your darling: we 
all know Johnny’s perfection. 

Mrs Tarueton. Dont be cross, dearie. You let 
Johnny alone; and Ill let Bunny alone. I’m just as bad 
as you. ‘There! 

Hypatia. Oh, I dont mind your saying that about 
Bentley. It’s true. He isa little squit of athing. I wish 
he wasnt. But who else is there? Think of all the other 
chances Ive had! Not one of them has as much brains in 
his whole body as Bentley has in his little finger. Besides, 
theyve no distinction. It’s as muchas [I can do to tell 
one from the other. They wouldnt even have money if 
they werent the sons of their fathers, like Johnny. Whats 
a girl to do? I never met anybody like Bentley before. 
He may be small; but hes the best of the bunch: you 
cant deny that. 

Mrs TARLETON [with a sigh] Well, my pet, if you fancy 
him, theres no more to be said. 

A pause follows this remark: the two women sewing 
silently. 

Hypatra. Mother: do you think marriage is as much 
a question of fancy as it used to be in your time and 
father’s? 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, it wasnt much fancy with me, 
dear: your father just wouldnt take no for an answer; 
and I was only too glad to be his wife instead of his shop- 
girl. Still, it’s curious; but I had more choice than you 
in a way, because, you see, I was poor; and there are so 


Misalliance o1 


many more poor men than rich ones that I might have 
had more of a pick, as you might say, if John hadnt 
suited me. 

Hypatia. I ean imagine all sorts of men I could fall in 
love with; but I never seem to meet them. The real 
ones are too small, like Bunny, or too silly, like Jerry. 
Of eourse one ean get into a state about any man: fall 
in love with him if you like to eall it that. But who would 
risk marrying a man for love? J shouldnt. JI remember 
three girls at sehool who agreed that the one man you 
should never marry was the man you were in love with, 
because it would make a perfeet slave of you. Theres a 
sort of instinet against it, I think, thats just as strong 
as the other instinct. One of them, to my eertain knowl- 
edge, refused a man she was in love with, and married 
another who was in love with her; and it turned out very 
well. 

Mrs Tarzeton. Does all that mean that youre not in 
love with Bunny? 

Hypatra. Oh, how could anybody be in love with 
Bunny? I like him to kiss me just as I like a baby to kiss 
me. I’m fond of him; and he never bores me; and I see 
that hes very clever; but I’m not what you eall gone about 
him, if thats what you mean. 

Mrs Tarueton. Then why need you marry him? 

Hypatra. What better ean I do? I must marry some- 
body, I suppose. Ive realized that since I was twenty- 
three. I always used to take it as a matter of course that 
I should be married before I was twenty. 

BENTLEY’s Voice [in the garden| Youve got to keep 
yourself fresh: to look at these things with an open 
mind. | 

JoHN TARLETON’s Voice. Quite right, quite right: I 
always say so. 

Mrs Tarueton. Theres your father, and Bunny with 
him. 


Q2 Misalliance 


BEenTLEY. Keep young. Keep your eye on me. Thats 
the tip for you. 

Bentley and Mr Tarleton (an immense and genial veteran 
of trade) come into view and enter the pavilion. 

JOHN TarLETOoN. You think youre young, do you? You 
think I’m old? [energetically shaking off his motoring coat 
and hanging tt up with his eap). 

BEentLey [helping him with the coat] Of course youre 
old. Look at your face and look at mine. What you call 
your youth ts nothing but your levity. Why do we get on 
so well together? Because I’m a young cub and youre an 
old josser. [He throws a eushion at Hypatia’s feet and sits 
down on it with his back against her knees]. 

Tariteton. Old! Thats all you know about it, my lad. 
How do, Patsy! [Hypatia kisses him]. How is my Chicka- 
biddy? [He kisses Mrs Tarleton’s hand and poses expan- 
sively in the middle of the picture]. Look at me! Look at 
these wrinkles, these gray hairs, this repulsive mask that 
you call old age! What is it? [Vehemently] I ask you, what 
is it? 

BENTLEY. Jolly nice and venerable, old man. Dont be 
discouraged. 

TarRLetTon. Nice? Nota bit of it. Venerable? Vener- 
able be blowed! Read your Darwin, my boy. Read your 
Weismann. [He goes to the sideboard for a drink of 
lemonade]. 

Mrs Tarueton. For shame, John! Tell him to read 
his Bible. 

TARLETON [manipulating the syphon] Whats the use of 
telling children to read the Bible when you know they 
wont. JI was kept away from the Bible for forty years by 
being told to read it when I was young. Then I picked it 
up one evening in a hotel in Sunderland when I had left 
all my papers in the train; and I found it wasnt half bad. 
[We drinks, and puts down the glass with a smack of enjoy- 
ment]. Better than most halfpenny papers, anyhow, if 


Misalliance 23 


only you could make people believe it. [He sits down by 
the writing-table, near his wife]. But if you want to under- 
stand old age scientifically, read Darwin and Weismann. 
Of course if you want to understand it romantically, read 
about Solomon. 

Mrs TarLeETon. Have you had tea, John? 

TarLteton. Yes. Dont interrupt me when I’m improv- 
ing the boy’s mind. Where was I? This repulsive mask— 
Yes. [Explosively] What is death? 

Mrs Tar.teton. John! 

Hypatra. Death is a rather unpleasant subject, 
papa. : 

TaRLETON. Notabit. Notsceientifically. Scientifically 
it’s a delightful subject. You think death’s natural. Well, 
it isnt. You read Weismann. There wasnt any death to 
start with. You go look in any ditch outside and youll find 
swimming about there as fresh as paint some of the 
identical little live cells that Adam christened in the 
Garden of Eden. But if big things like us didnt die, we'd 
erowd one another off the face of the globe. Nothing 
survived, sir, except the sort of people that had the sense 
and good manners to die and make room for the fresh 
supplies. And so death was introduced by Natural Sclec- 
tion. You get it out of your head, my lad, that ’'m going 
to die because I’m wearing out or decaying. ‘Theres no 
such thing as decay to a vital man. [I shall clear out; but 
I shant decay. 

Bent.LeEy. And what about the wrinkles and the almond 
tree and the grasshopper that becomes a burden and the 
desire that fails? 

TARLETON. Does it? by George! No, sir: it spiritual- 
izes. As to your grasshopper, I can carry an elephant. 

Mrs Tarueton. You do say such things, Bunny! What 
does he mean by the almond tree? 

TARLETON. He means my white hairs: the repulsive 
mask. That, my boy, is another invention of Natural 


24 Misalliance 


Selection to disgust young women with me, and give the 
lads a turn. 

Mrs Tarueton. John: I wont have it. Thats a forbid- 
den subject. 

TARLETON. They talk of the wickedness and vanity of 
women painting their faces and wearing auburn wigs at 
fifty. But why shouldnt they? Why should a woman 
allow Nature to put a false mask of age on her when she 
knows that shes as young as ever? Why should she look 
in the glass and see a wrinkled lie when a touch of fine 
art will shew her a glorious truth? The wrinkles are a 
dodge to repel young men. Suppose she doesnt want to 
repel young men! Suppose she likes them! 

Mrs Tarueton. Bunny: take Hypatia out into the 
grounds for a walk: theres a good boy. John has got one 
of his naughty fits this evening. 

Hypatia. Oh, never mind me. J’m used to him. 

BENTLEY. I’m not. I never heard such conversation: 
T cant believe my ears. And mind you, this is the man who 
objected to my marrying his daughter on the ground that 
a marriage between a member of the great and good middle 
class with one of the vicious and corrupt aristocracy would 
be a misalliance. A misallianee, if you please! This is the 
man Ive adopted as a father! 

TARLETON. Eh! Whats that? Adopted me as a 
father, have you? 

BenTLEY. Yes. Thats an idea of mine. I knew a chap 
named Joey Percival at Oxford (you know I was two 
months at Balliol before I was sent down for telling the 
old woman who was head of that silly college what I jolly 
well thought of him. He would have been glad to have 
me back, too, at the end of six months; but I wouldnt 
go: I just let him want; and serve him right!) Well, Joey 
was a most awfully clever fellow, and so nice! I asked 
him what made such a differenee between him and all the 
other pups—they were pups, if you like. Hetold me it 


Misalliance 25 


was very simple: they had only one father apiece; and 
he had three. 

Mrs TarLeton. Dont talk nonsense, child. How could 
that be? 

BENTLEY. Oh, very simple. His father— 

TarRLeTon. Which father? 

Bentuey. The first one: the regulation natural chap. 
He kept a tame philosopher in the house: a sort of Coler- 
idge or Herbert Spencer kind of ecard, you know. That was 
the second father. Then his mother was an Italian prin- 
cess; and she had an Italian priest always about. He was 
supposed to take charge of her conscience; but from what 
I could make out, she jolly well took charge of his. The 
whole three of them took charge of Joey’s conscience. He 
used to hear them arguing like mad about everything. 
You see, the philosopher was a freethinker, and always 
believed the latest thing. The priest didnt believe any- 
thing, because it was sure to get him into trouble with 
someone or another. And the natural father kept an cpen 
mind and believed whatever paid him best. Between tlie 
lot of them Joey got cultivated no end. He said if he 
could only have had three mothers as well, he’d have 
backed himself against Napoleon. 

TARLETON [impressed] Thats an idea. Thats a most 
interesting idea: a most important idea. 

Mrs TarLteton. You always were one for ideas, 
John. 

TarLeton. Youre right, Chickabiddy. What do I tell 
Johnny when he brags about Tarleton’s Underwear? It’s 
not the underwear. The underwear be hanged! Anybody 
ean make underwear. Anybody can sell underwear. 
Tarleton’s Ideas: thats whats done it. Ive often thought 
of putting that up over the shop. 

BentLey. Take me into partnership when you do, old 
man. I’m wasted on the underwear; but I shall come in 
strong on the ideas. 


26 Misalliance 


TARLETON. You be a good boy; and perhaps I 
will. 

Mrs Tar.eron [scentinga plot against her beloved Johnny] 
Now, John: you promised— 

TarLeton. Yes, yes. All right, Chickabiddy: dont 
fuss. Your precious Johnny shant be interfered with. 
[Bouncing wp, too energetic to sit still] But I’m getting sick 
of that old shop. Thirty-five years Ive had of it: same 
blessed old stairs to go up and down every day: same old 
lot: same old game: sorry I ever started it now. I'll 
chuck it and try something else: something that will give 
a scope to all my faculties. 

Hypatra. Theres money in underwear: theres none in 
wild-cat ideas. 

TarLeton. Theres money in me, madam, no matter 
what I go into. 

Mrs Tarueton. Dont boast, John. Dont tempt Provi- 
dence. 

TarLetTon. Rats! You dont understand Providence. 
Providence likes to be tempted. Thats the secret of the 
successful man. Read Browning. Natural theology on an 
island, eh? Caliban was afraid to tempt Providence: that 
was why he was never able to get even with Prospero. 
What did Prospero do? Prospero didnt even tempt 
Providence: he was Providence. Thats one of Tarleton’s 
ideas; and dont you forget it. 

Bentuey. You are full of beef today, old man. 

TARLETON. Beef be blowed! Joy of life. Read Ibsen. 
[He goes into the pavilion to relieve his restlessness, and stares 
out with his hands thrust deep tn his pockets]. 

Hypattia [thoughtful] Bentley: couldnt you invite your 
friend Mr Percival down here? 

BentLey. Not if I know it. Youd throw me over the 
moment you set eyes on him. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, Bunny! For shame! 

BentLey. Well, who’d marry me, dyou suppose, if they 


Misalliance Q7 


eould get my brains with a full-sized body? No, thank 
you. I shall take jolly good care to keep Joey out of this 
until Hypatia is past praying for. 

Johnny and Lord Summerhays return through the pavilion 
from their stroll. 

TaRLETON. Welcome! welcome! Why have you stayed 
away so long? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS [shaking hands] Yes: I should have 
come sooner. But I’m still rather lost in England. [Johany 
takes his hat and hangs it up beside his own]. Thank you. 
[Johnny returns to his swing and his novel. Lord Summer- 
hays comes to the writing table]. The fact is that as Ive 
nothing to do, I never have time to go anywhere. [Jle sits 
down next Mrs Tarleton]. 

TARLETON [following him and stiting down on his left] 
Paradox, paradox. Good. Paradoxes are the only truths. 
Read Chesterton. But theres lots for you to do here. You 
have a genius for government. You learnt your job out 
there in Jinghiskahn. Well, we want to be governed here 
in England. Govern us. 

Lorp SummMrERnHAyS. Ah yes, my friend; but in Jing- 
hiskahn you have to govern the right way. If you dont, 
you go under and come home. Here everything has to be 
done the wrong way, to suit governors who understand 
nothing but partridge shooting (our English native prinees, 
in faet) and voters who dont know what theyre voting 
about. I dont understand these democratie games; and 
I’m afraid I’m too old to learn. What can I do but sit in 
the window of my club, which consists mostly of retired 
Indian Civil servants? We look on at the muddle and the 
folly and amateurishness; and we ask each other where a 
single fortnight of it would have landed us. 

TARLETON. Very true. Still, Democraecy’s all right, 
you know. Read Mill. Read Jefferson. 

Lorp SuMMeErRHAyS. Yes. Democracy reads well; but 
it doesnt act well, like some people’s plays. No, no, my 


98 Misalliance 


friend Tarleton: to make Democracy work, you need an 
aristocratic democracy. To make Aristocracy work, you 
need a democratic aristocracy. Youve got neither; and 
theres an end of it. 

TARLETON. Still, you know, the superman may come. 
The superman’s an idea. I believe in ideas. Read Whats- 
hisname. 

Lorp SummMrErnaAys. Reading is a dangerous amusement, 
Tarleton. I wish I could persuade your free library 
people of that. 

TarLETon. Why, man, it’s the beginning of education. 

Lorp SumMErRuHAyYsS. On the contrary, it’s the end of it. 
How can you dare teach a man to read until youve taught 
him everything else first? 

JouUNNY [intercepting his father’s reply by coming out of 
the swing and taking the floor] Leave it at that. Thats 
good sense. Anybody on for a game of tennis? 

BentLey. Oh, lets have some more impreving conver- 
sation. Wouldnt you rather, Johnny? 

JOHNNY. If you ask me, no. 

TarLeTOoN. Johnny: you dont cultivate your mind. 
You dont read. 

JOHNNY [coming between his mother and Lord Summer- 
hays, book in hand] Yes I do. I bet you what you like 
that, page for page, I read more than you, though I dont 
talk about it so much. Only, I dont read the same books. 
{ hke a book with a plot init. You like a book with noth- 
ing in it but some idea that the chap that writes it keeps 
worrying, like a cat chasing its own tail. I can stand a 
little of it, just as I can stand watching the cat for two 
minutes, say, when Ive nothing better to do. But a man 
soon gets fed up with that sort of thing. The fact is, you 
look on an author as a sort of god. J look on him as a man 
that I pay to do a certain thing for me. I pay him to 
amuse me and to take me out of myself and make me 
forget. 


Misalliance 29 


TarLeton. No. Wrong principle. You want to re- 
member. Read Kipling. ‘“‘Lest we forget.” 

JOHNNY. If Kipling wants to remember, let him re- 
member. If he had to run Tarleton’s Underwear, he’d be 
jolly glad to forget. As he has a much softer job, and 
wants to keep himself before the public, his ery is, “‘ Dont 
you forget the sort of things I’m rather clever at writing 
about.” Well, I dont blame him: it’s his business: I 
should do the same in his place. But what he wants and 
what I want are two different things. I want to forget; 
and I pay another man to make me forget. If I buy a 
book or go to the theatre, I want to forget the shop and 
forget myself from the moment I go in to the moment I 
come out. Thats what I pay my money for. And if I 
find that the author’s simply getting at me the whole time, 
I consider that hes obtained my money under false pre- 
tences. I’m not a morbid crank: I’m anatural man; and, 
as such, I dont like being got at. If aman in my employ- 
ment did it, I should sack him. If a member of my elub 
did it, ILshould cut him. If he went too far with it, I should 
bring his conduct before the committee. I might even 
punch his head, if it came to that. Well, who and what is 
an author that he should be privileged to take liberties 
that are not allowed to other men? 

Mrs TartetTon. You see, John! What have I always 
told you? Johnny has as much to say for himself as any- 
body when he likes. 

JOHNNY. I’m no fool, mother, whatever some people 
may fancy. I dont set up to have as many ideas as the 
Governor; but what ideas I have are consecutive, at all 
events. JI can think as well as talk. 

BENTLEY [to Tarleton, chuckling] Had you there, old 
man, hadnt he? You are rather all over the shop with 
your ideas, aint you? 

JOHNNY [handsomely| I’m not saying anything against 
you, Governor. But I do say that the time has come for 


30 Misalliance 


sane, healthy, unpretending men like me to make a stand 
against this conspiracy of the writing and talking and 
artistic lot to put us in the back row. It isnt a fact that 
we're inferior to them: it’s a put-up job; and it’s they 
that have put the job up. It’s we that run the country for 
them; and all the thanks we get is to be told we’re Philis- 
tines and vulgar tradesmen and sordid city men and so 
forth, and that theyre all angels of light and leading. The 
time has come to assert ourselves and put a stop to their 
stuck-up nonsense. Perhaps if we had nothing better to 
do than talking or writing, we could do it better than they. 
Anyhow, theyre the failures and refuse of business (hardly 
a man of them that didnt begin in an office) and we’re the 
successes of it. Thank God I havnt failed yet at anything; 
and I dont believe I should fail at literature if it would pay 
me to turn my hand to it. 

BenturEy. Hear, hear! 

Mrs Tarueton. Fancy you writing a book, Johnny! 
Do you think he could, Lord Summerhays? 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. Why not? Asa matter of fact all 
the really prosperous authors I have met since my return 
to England have been very like him. 

TARLETON [again impressed] Thats an idea. Thats a 
new idea. I believe I ought to have made Johnny an 
author. Ive never said so before for fear of hurting his 
feelings, because, after all, the lad cant help it; but 
Ive never thought Johnny worth tuppence as a man of 
business. 

Jounny [sarcastic] Oh! You think youve always 
kept that to yourself, do you, Governor? I know your 
opinion of me as well as you know it yourself. It takes 
one man of business to appreciate another; and you arnt, 
and you never have been, a real man of business. I 
know where Tarleton’s would have been three of four 
times if it hadnt been for me. [W7th a snort and a nod to 
emphasize the implied warning, he retreats to the Turkish 


Misalliance 31 


bath, and lolls against it with an air of good-humoured 
indifference]. 

TaruETon. Well, who denies it? Youre quite right, 
my boy. I don’t mind confessing to you all that the cir- 
cumstances that condemned me to keep a shop are the 
biggest tragedy in modern hfe. I ought to have been a 
writer. I’m essentially a man of ideas. When I was a 
young man I sometimes used to pray that I might fail, so 
that I should be justified in giving up business and doing 
something: something first-class. But it was no good: I 
couldnt fail. I said to myself that if I could only once go 
to my Chickabiddy here and shew her a chartered ac- 
countant’s statement proving that ’'d made £20 less than 
last year, I could ask her to let me chance Johnny’s and 
Hypatia’s future by going into literature. But it was no 
good. First it was £250 more than last year. Then it was 
£700. Then it was £2000. Then I saw it was no use: Pro- 
metheus was chained to his rock: read Shelley: read 
Mrs Browning. Well, well, it was not to be. [He rises 
solemnly]. Lord Summerhays: I ask you to excuse me for 
a few moments. There are times when a man needs to 
meditate in solitude on his destiny. A chord is touched; 
and he sees the drama of his life as a spectator sees a play. 
Laugh if you feel inclined: no man sees the comic side of 
it more than I. In the theatre of life everyone may be 
amused except the actor. [Brightening] Theres an idea 
in this: an idea for a picture. What a pity young Bentley 
is not a painter! Tarleton meditating on his destiny. Not 
in a toga. Not in the trappings of the tragedian or the 
philosopher. In plain coat and trousers: a man like any 
other man. And beneath that coat and trousers a human 
soul. ‘Tarleton’s Underwear! [He goes out gravely into the 
vestibule. 

Mrs TaruEton [fondly] I suppose it’s a wife’s partiality, 
Lord Summerhays; but I do think John is really great. 
I’m sure he was meant to be a king. My father looked 


32 Misalliance 


down on John, because he was a rate collector, and John 
kept ashop. It hurt his pride to have to borrow money so 
often from John; and he used to console himself by say- 
ing, ‘‘After all, he’s only a linendraper.”’ But at last one 
day he said to me, “‘John is a king.” 

BENTLEY. How much did he borrow on that occasion? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS [sharply] Bentley! 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, dont scold the child: he’d have to 
say something like that if it was to be his last word on 
earth. Besides, hes quite right: my poor father had 
asked for his usual five pounds; and John gave him a 
hundred in his big way. Just like a king. 

Lorp SumMeERHAyYsS. Not at all. I had five kings to 
manage in Jinghiskahn; and I think you do your husband 
some injustice, Mrs Tarleton. They pretended to like me 
because I kept their brothers from murdering them; but 
I didnt like them. And [ like Tarleton. 

Mrs Tarueton. Everybody does. I really must go and 
make the cook do hima Welsh rabbit. He expects one on 
special occasions. [She goes to the inner door]. Johnny: 
when he comes back ask him where we’re to put that new 
Turkish bath. Turkish baths are his latest. [She goes out]. 

JOHNNY [coming forward again] Now that the Governor 
has given himself away, and the old lady’s gone, TPll tell 
you something, Lord Summerhays. If you study men 
whove made an enormous pile in business without being 
keen on money, youll find that they all have a slate off. 
The Governor’s a wonderful man; but hes not quite all 
there, you know. If you notice, hes different from me; and 
whatever my failings may be, Pm a sane man. Erratic: 
thats what he is. And the danger is that some day he'll 
give the whole show away. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Giving the show away is a method 
like any other method. Keeping it to yourself is only 
another method. I should keep an open mind about it. 

JOHNNY. Has it ever occurred to you that a man with 


Misalliance 33 


an open mind must be a bit of a scoundrel? If you ask me, 
I like a man who makes up his mind once for all as to 
whats right and whats wrong and then sticks to it. At all 
events you know where to have him. 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. That may not be his object. 

BentLey. He may want to have you, old chap. 

JOHNNY. Well, let him. If a member of my club wants 
to steal my umbrella, he knows where to find it. If aman 
put up for the club who had an open mind on the subject 
of property in umbrellas, I should blackball him. An open 
mind is all very well in clever talky-talky; but in conduct 
and im business give me solid ground. 

Lorp SumMeERHAYS. Yes: the quicksands make life 
difficult. Still, there they are. It’s no use pretending 
theyre rocks. 

JOHNNY. I dont know. You can draw a line and make 
other chaps toe it. Thats what I eall morality. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Very true. But you dont make 
any progress when youre toeing a line. 

Hypatia [suddenly, as uf she could bear no more of it] 
Bentley: do go and play tennis with Johnny. You must 
take exercise. 

Lorp SumMERuAYS. Do, my boy, do. [To Johnny] 
Take him out and make him skip about. 

BENTLEY [rising reluctantly] I promised you two inches 
more round my chest this summer. I tried exereises with 
an indiarubber expander; but I wasnt strong enough: in- 
stead of my expanding it, it crumpled me up. Come 
along, Johnny. : 

JOHNNY. Do you no end of good, young chap. [He goes 
out with Bentley through the pavilion]. 

Hypatia throws aside her work with an enormous sigh of 
relief. 

Lorp SumMernAyrs. At last! 

Hypatia. Atlast. Oh, if I might only have a holiday in 
an asylum for the dumb. How TI envy the animals! They 


34 Misalliance 


cant talk. If Johnny could only put back his ears or wag 
his tail instead of Jaying down the law, how much better 
it would be! We should know when he was cross and when 
he was pleased; and thats all we know now, with all his 
talk. It never stops: talk, talk, talk, talk. Thats my life. 
All the day I listen to mamma talking; at dinner I listen to 
papa talking; and when papa stops for breath I listen to 
Johnny talking. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. You make me feel very guilty. I 
talk too, I’m afraid. 

Hypatira. Oh, I dont mind that, because your talk 
is a novelty. But it must have been dreadful for your 
daughters. 

Lorp SummMeErnaAys. I suppose so. 

Hypatia. If parents would only realize how they bore 
their children! Three or four times in the last half hour 
Ive been on the point of screaming. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. Were we very dull? 

Hypatia. Not at all: you were very clever. Thats 
whats so hard to bear, because it makes it so difficult to 
avoid listening. You see, I’m young; and I do so want 
something to happen. My mother tells me that when I’m 
her age, I shall be only too glad that nothing’s happened; 
but I’m not her age; so what good is that to me? Theres 
my father in the garden, meditating on his destiny. All 
very well for him: hes had a destiny to meditate on; but I 
havnt had any destiny yet. Everything’s happened to him: 
nothing’s happened to me. Thats why this unending talk 
is so maddeningly uninteresting to me. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. It would be worse if we sat in 
silence. 

Hypatia. Noit wouldnt. If you all sat in silence, as if 
you were waiting for something to happen, then there 
would be hope even if nothing did happen. But this 
eternal cackle, cackle, cackle about things in general is 
only fit for old, old, OLD people. I suppose it means 


Misalliance 35 


something to them: theyve had their fling. All I listen 
for is some sign of it ending in something; but just when 
it seems to be coming to a point, Johnny or papa just starts 
another hare; and it all begins over again; and [I realize 
that it’s never going to lead anywhere and never going to 
stop. Thats when I want to scream. I wonder how you 
can stand it. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Well, Pm old and garrulous myself, 
you see. Besides, I’m not here of my own free will, 
exactly. I came because you ordered me to come. 

Hypatia. Didnt you want to come? 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. My dear: after thirty years of 
managing other people’s business, men lose the habit of 
considering what they want or dont want. 

Hypatia. Oh, dont begin to talk about what men do, 
and about thirty years experience. If you cant get off that 
subject, youd better send for Johnny and papa and begin 
it all over again. 

Lorp SumMErHAys. I’m sorry. I beg your pardon. 

Hypamtia. I asked you, didnt you want to come? 

Lorp Summernays. I did not stop to consider whether 
I wanted or not, because when I read your letter I knew 
I had to come. 

Hypatia. Why? 

Lorp SuMMERnAYS. Oh come, Miss Tarleton! Really, 
really! Dont force me to call you a blackmailer to your 
face. You have me in your power; and I do what you 
tell me very obediently. Dont ask me to pretend I do it 
of my own free will. 

Hypatia. I dont know what a blackmailer is. I havnt 
even that much experience. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. A blackmailer, my dear young 
lady, is a person who knows a disgraceful secret in the life 
of another person, and extorts money from that other 
person by threatening to make his secret public unless the 
money is paid. 


36 Misalliance 


Hypatra. I havnt asked you for money. 

Lorp SumMERHAyYsS. No; but you asked me to come 
down here and talk to you; and you mentioned casually 
that if I didnt youd have nobody to talk about me to but 
Bentley. That was a threat, was it not? 

Hypatia. Well, I wanted you to come. 

Lorp Summeruays. In spite of my age and my unfor- 
tunate talkativeness? 

Hypatia. [I like talking to you. I can let myself go 
with you. I can say things to you I cant say to other 
people. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYsS. I wonder why? 

Hypatia. Well, you are the only really clever, grown- 
up, high-class, experienced man I know who has given 
himself away to me by making an utter fool of himself 
with me. You cant wrap yourself up in your toga after 
that. You cant give yourself airs with me. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. You mean you can tell Bentley 
about me if I do. 

Hypatia. Evenif there wasnt any Bentley: even if you 
didnt care (and I really dont see why you should care so 
much) still, we never could be on conventional terms with 
one another again. Besides, Ive got a feeling for you: al- 
most a ghastly sort of love for you. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS [shrinking] I beg you—no, please. 

Hypatia. Oh, it’s nothing at all flattering: and, of 
course, nothing wrong, as I suppose youd call it. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Please believe that I know that. 
When men of my age-—— 

Hypatia [impatiently] Oh, do talk about yourself when 
you mean yourself, and not about men of your age. 

Lorp SummeErRuHAyYs. I'll put it as bluntly as I can. 
When, as you say, I made an utter fool of myself, believe 
me, I made a poetic fool of myself. I was seduced, not by 
appetites which, thank Heaven, Ive long outlived: not 
even by the desire of second childhood for a child com- 


Misalliance 37 


panion, but by the innocent impulse to place the delicacy 
and wisdom and spirituality of my age at the affectionate 
service of your youth for a few years, at the end of which 
you would be a grown, strong, formed—widow. Alas, my 
dear, the delicacy of age reckoned, as usual, without the 
derision and cruelty of youth. You told me that you 
didnt want to be an old man’s nurse, and that you didnt 
want to have undersized children like Bentley. It served 
me right: I dont reproach you: I was an old fool. But 
how you can imagine, after that, that I can suspect you of 
the smallest feeling for me except the inevitable feeling of 
early youth for late age, or imagine that I have any feeling 
for you except one of shrinking humiliation, I cant 
understand. 

Hypatra. [ dont blame you for falling in love with me. 
I shall be grateful to you all my life for it, because that 
was the first time that anything really interesting happened 
to me. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Do you mean to tell me that noth- 
ing of that kind had ever happened before? that no man 
had ever—— 

Hypatira. Oh, lots. Thats part of the routine of hfe 
here: the very dullest part of it. The young man who 
comes a-courting is as familiar an incident in my life as 
coffee for breakfast. Of course, hes too much of a gentle- 
man to misbehave himself; and I’m too much of a lady to 
let him; and hes shy and sheepish; and I’m correet and 
self-possessed; and at last, when I can bear it no longer, 
I either frighten him off, or give him a chance of propos- 
ing, Just to see how he’ll do it, and refuse him because he 
does it in the same silly way as all the rest. You dont call 
that an event in one’s life, do you? With you it was dif- 
ferent. I should as soon have expected the North Pole to 
fall in love with me as you. You know I’m only a linen- 
draper’s daughter when all’s said. I was afraid of you: 
you, a great man! a lord! and older than my father. 


38 Misalliance 


And then, what a situation it was! Just think of it! I was 
engaged to your son; and you knew nothing about it. 
He was afraid to tell you: he brought you down here be- 
cause he thought if he could throw us together I could get 
round you because I was such a rippimg girl. We arranged 
it all: he and I. We got Papa and Mamma and Johnny 
out of the way splendidly; and then Bentley took himself 
off, and left us—you and me!—to take a walk through the 
heather and admire the scenery of Hindhead. You never 
dreamt that it was all a plan: that what made me so nice 
was the way I was playing up to my destiny as the sweet 
girl that was to make your boy happy. And then! and 
then! [She rises to dance and clap her hands in her glee}. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS [shuddering] Stop, stop. Can no 
woman understand a man’s delicacy? 

Hypattia [revelling in the recollection] And then—ha, ha! 
—you proposed. You! A father! For your son’s girl! 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. Stop, I tell you. Dont profane 
what you dont understand. 

Hypatia. That was something happening at last with a 
vengeance. It was splendid. It was my first peep behind 
the scenes. If I’d been seventeen I should have fallen in 
love with you. Even as it is, I feel quite differently 
towards you from what I do towards other old men. So 
[offering her hand] you may kiss my hand if that will be 
any fun for you. 

Lorp SumMeERHAYS [rising and recoiling to the table, 
deeply revolted} No, no, no. How dare you? [She laughs 
mischievously|. How callous youth is! How coarse! How 
cynical! How ruthlessly cruel! 

Hypatta. Stuff! It’s only that youre tired of a great 
many things Ive never tried. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. It’s not alone that. Ive not for- 
gotten the brutality of my own boyhood. But do try to 
learn, glorious young beast that you are, that age is squeam- 
ish, sentimental, fastidious. If you cant understand my 


Misalliance | 39 


holier feelings, at least you know the bodily infirmities of 
the old. You know that I darent eat all the rich things you 
gobble up at every meal; that I cant bear the noise and 
racket and clatter that affect you no more than they affect 
a stone. Well, my soul is like that too. Spare it: be 
gentle with it [he txvoluntarily puts out his hands to plead: 
she takes them with a laugh]. If you could possibly think 
of me as half an angel and half an invalid, we should get 
on much better together. 

Hypatia. We get on very well, I think. Nobody else 
ever called me a glorious young beast. I like that. Glo- 
rious young beast expresses exactly what I hke to be. 

Lorp SumMeruAys [eztricating his hands and sitting 
down| Where on earth did you get these morbid tastes? 
You seem to have been well brought up in a normal, 
healthy, respectable, middle-class family. Yet you go on 
like the most unwholesome product of the rankest Bohe- 
mianism. 

Hyratia. Thats just it. I’m fed up with 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. Horrible expression. Dont. 

Hyratia. Oh, I daresay it’s vulgar; but theres no other 
word for it. I’m fed up with nice things: with respec- 
tability, with propriety! When a woman has nothing to 
do, money and respectability mean that nothing is ever 
allowed to happen to her. I dont want to be good; and I 
dont want to be bad: I just dont want to be bothered about 
either good or bad: I want to be an active verb. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. An active verb? Oh, I see. An 
active verb signifies to be, to do, or to suffer. 

Hypatia. Just so: how clever of you! I want to be; I 
want to do; and I’m game to suffer if it costs that. But 
stick here doing nothing but being good and nice and 
ladylike I simply wont. Stay down here with us for a 
week; and I’ll shew you what it means: shew it to you 
going on day after day, year after year, lifetime after 
lifetime. 





40 Misalliance 


Lorp SumMERHAYS. Shew me what? : 

Hypatia. Girls withering into ladies. Ladies withering 
into old maids. Nursing old women. Running errands for 
old men. Good for nothing else at last. Oh, you cant 
imagine the fiendish selfishness of the old people and the 
maudlin sacrifice of the young. It’s more unbearable than 
any poverty: more horrible than any regular-right-down 
wickedness. Oh, home! home! parents! family! duty! 
how I loathe them! How Id like to see them ali blown to 
bits! The poor escape. The wicked escape. Well, I cant 
be poor: we’re rolling in money: it’s no use pretending 
we're not. But I can be wicked; and I’m quite prepared 
to be. 

Lorp SumMernAys. You think that easy? 

Hypatia. Well, isnt it? Being a man, you ought to 
know. 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. It requires some natural talent, 
which can no doubt be cultivated. It’s not really easy to 
be anything out of the common. 

Hypatia. Anyhow, I mean to make a fight for living. 

Lorp SumMERUAYS. Living your own life, I believe the 
Suffragist phrase is. 

Hypatia. Living any life. Living, instead of withering 
without even a gardener to snip you off when youre rotten. 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. Ive lived an active life; but Ive 
withered all the same. 

Hypatia. No: youve worn out: thats quite different. 
And youve some life in you yet or you wouldnt have 
fallen in love with me. You can never imagine how 
delighted I was to find that instead of being the correct 
sort of big panjandrum you were supposed to be, you were 
really an old rip like papa. 

Lorp SumMeErRuAyYs. No. no: not about your father: I 
really cant bear it. And if you must say these terrible 
things: these heart-wounding shameful things, at least 
find something prettier to call me than an old rip. 


Misalliance 41 


Hypatia. Well, what would you call a man proposing 
to a girl who might be—— 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. His daughter: yes, I know. 

Hypatia. I[ was going to say his granddaughter. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. You always have one more blow to 
get in. 

Hypatia. Youre too sensitive. Did you ever make mud 
pies when you were a kid—beg pardon: a child. 

Lorp SumMeEruays. I hope not. 

Hypatia. It’s a dirty job; but Johnny and I were 
vulgar enough to hke it. I like young people because 
theyre not too afraid of dirt to live. Ive grown out of the 
mud pies; but I like slang; and I like bustling you up by 
saying things that shock you; and I'd rather put up with 
swearing aud smoking than with dull respectability; and 
there are lots of things that would just shrivel you up that 
I think rather jolly. Now! 

Lorp SumMMERuAys. Ive not the slightest donbt of it. 
Dont insist. 

Hypatia. It’s not your ideal, is it? 

Lorp SumMMERuUAYS. No. 

Hypatia. Shall I tell you why? Your ideal is an old 
woman. I daresay shes got a young face: but shes an 
old woman. Old, old, old. Squeamish. Cant stand up 
to things. Cant enjoy things: not real things. Always 
on the shrink. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. On the shrink! Detestable ex- 
pression. 

Hypatta. Bah! you cant stand even a little thing like 
that. What good are you? Oh, what good are you? 

Lorp SumMErRHAYS. Dont ask me. I dont know. I 
dont know. 

Tarleton returns from the vestibule. Hypatia sits down 
demurely. 

Hypatia. Well, papa: have you meditated on your 
destiny? 


42 Misalliance 


TARLETON [puzzled] What? Oh! my destiny. Gad, 
I forgot all about it: Jock started a rabbit and put it clean 
out of my head. Besides, why should I give way to morbid 
introspection? It’s a sign of madness. Read Lombroso. 
[To Lord Summerhays] Well, Se has my little 
girl been entertaining you? 

Lorp SummMeERHAyS. Yes. She is a wonderful enter- 
tainer. 

TarRLetTon. I think my idea of bringing up a young girl 
has been rather a success. Dont you listen to this, Patsy: 
it might make you conceited. Shes never been treated 
like a child. I always said the same thing to her mother. 
Let her read what she likes. Let her do what she likes. 
Let her go where she likes. Eh, Patsy? 

Hypatra. Oh yes, if there had only been anything for 
me to do, any place for me to go, anything I wanted toread. 

TARLETON. There, you see! Shes not satisfied. Rest- 
less. Wants things to happen. Wants adventures to drop 
out of the sky. 

Hypatra [gathering up her work] If youre going to talk 
about me and my education, I’m off. 

TARLETON. Well, well, off with you. [To Lord Summer- 
hays] Shes active, like me. She actually wanted me to 
put her into the shop. 

Hypatia. Well, they tell me that the girls there have 
adventures sometimes. [She goes out through the inner door] 

TARLETON. She had me there, though she doesnt know 
it, poor innocent lamb! Public scandal exaggerates enor- 
mously, of course; but moralize as you will, superabun- 
dant vitality is a physical fact that cant be talked away. 
[He sits down between the writing table and the sideboard]. 
Difficult question this, of bringing up children. Between 
ourselves, it has beaten me. I never was so surprised in 
my life as when I came to know Johnny as a man of 
business and found out what he was really like. How did 
you manage with your sons? 


Misalliance 43 


Lorp SummeruAys. Well, I really hadnt time to be a 
father: thats the plain truth of the matter. Their poor 
dear mother did the usual thing while they were with us. 
Then of course, Harrow, Cambridge, the usual routine of 
their class. I saw very little of them, and thought very 
little about them: how could I? with a whole province 
on my hands. They and I are—aequaintanees. Not per- 
haps, quite ordinary acquaintances: theres a sort of—er— 
I should almost eall it a sort of remorse about the way we 
shake hands (when we do shake hands) which means, I 
suppose, that we’re sorry we dont eare more for one an- 
other; and I’m afraid we dont meet oftener than we can 
help. We put each other too much out of ecountenanee. 
It’s really a very difficult relation. To my mind not alto- 
gether a natural one. 

TARLETON [zmpressed, as usual] Thats an idea, certainly. 
I dont think anybody has ever written about that. 

Lorp SumMERHAYs. Bentley is the only one who was 
really my son in any serious sense. He was completely 
spoilt. When he was sent to a preparatory school he 
simply yelled until he was sent home. Harrow was out of 
the question; but we managed to tutor him into Cam- 
bridge. No use: he was sent down. By that time my 
work was over; and I saw a good deal of him. But I 
could do nothing with him—except look on. I should 
have thought your ease was quite different. You keep up 
the middle-elass tradition: the day school and the business 
training instead of the university. I believe in the day 
sehool part of it. At all events, you know your own 
children. 

TARLETON. Do you? [’mnot so sure of it. Fact is, my 
dear Summerhays, once childhood is over, onee the little 
animal has got past the stage at which it aequires what 
you might call a sense of deceney, it’s all up with the 
relation between parent and child. You eant get over the 
fearful shyness of it. 


4A Misalliance 


Lorp SUMMERHAYs. Shyness? 

TARLETON. Yes, shyness. Read Dickens. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS [surprised] Dickens!! Of all au- 
thors, Charles Dickens! Are you serious? 

Tar.LETON. I dont mean his books. Read his letters 
to his family. Read any man’s letters to his children. 
Theyre not human. Theyre not about himself or them- 
selves. Theyre about hotels, scenery, about the weather, 
about getting wet and losing the train and what he saw on 
the road and all that. Nota word about himself. Forced. 
Shy. Duty letters. All fit to be published: that says 
everything. I tell you theres a wall ten feet thick and ten 
miles high between parent and child. I know what Pm 
talking about. Ive girls in my employment: girls and 
young men. [I had ideas on the subject. I used to go to 
the parents and tell them not to let their children go out 
into the world without instruction in the dangers and 
temptations they were going to be thrown into. What 
did every one of the mothers say to me? “Oh, sir, how 
could I speak of such things to my own daughter?”” The 
men said I was quite right; but they didnt do it, anyimore 
than I’d been able to do it myself to Johnny. I had to 
leave books in his way; and I felt just awful when I did 
it. Believe me, Summerhays, the relation between the 
young and the old should be an innocent relation. It 
should be something they could talk about. Well, the 
relation between parent and child may be an affectionate 
relation. It may be a useful relation. It may be a neces- 
sary relation. But it can never be an innocent relation. 
Youd die rather than allude to it. Depend on it, in a 
thousand years itll be considered bad form to know who 
your father and mother are. Embarrassing. Better hand 
Bentley over to me. J can look him in the face and talk to 
him as man to man. You can have Johnny. 

Lorp SummMeruays. Thank you. Ive lived so long in a 
country where a man may have fifty sons, who are no more 


Misalliance 45 


to him than a regiment of soldiers, that I’m afraid Ive 
lost the English feeling about it. 

TARLETON [restless again] You mean Jinghiskahn. Ah 
yes. Good thing the empire. Educates us. Opens our 
minds. Knocks the Bible out of us. And civilizes the 
other chaps. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. Yes: it eivilizes them. And it 
uncivilizes us. Their gain. Our loss, Tarleton, believe me, 
our loss. 

TARLETON. Well, why not? Averages out the human 
race. Makes the nigger half an Englishman. Makes the 
Englishman half a nigger. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Speaking as the unfortunate Eng- 
lishman in question, I dont like the proeess. If I had my 
life to live over again, I'd stay at home and supercivilize 
myself. 

Tar.LetTon. Nonsense! dont be selfish. Think how 
youve improved the other chaps. Look at the Spanish 
empire! Bad job for Spain, but splendid for South Amer- 
ica. Look at what the Romans did for Britain! They burst 
up and had to elear out; but think of all they taught us! 
They were the making of us: J believe there was a Roman 
camp on Hindhead: [ll shew it to you tomorrow. Thats 
the good side of Imperialism: it’s unselfish. I despise 
the Little Englanders: theyre always thinking about 
England. Smallminded. I’m for the Parliament of man, 
the federation of the world. Read Tennyson. [Je settles 
down again]. Then theres the great food question. 

Lorp SumMErRHAyYsS [apprehensively] Need we go into 
that this afternoon? 

TarxLeton. No; but I wish youd tell the Chiekabiddy 
that the Jinghiskahns eat no end of toasted cheese, and 
that it’s the seeret of their amazing health and long 
life! 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. Unfortunately they are neither 
healthy nor long lived. And they dont eat toasted cheese. 


46 Misalliance 


TARLETON. There you are! They would be if they ate 
it. Anyhow, say what you like, provided the moral is a 
Welsh rabbit for my supper. 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. British morality im a nutshell! 

TARLETON [hugely amused] Yes. Ha ha! Awful hypo- 
crites, aint we? 

They are interrupted by excited cries from the grounds. 

Hypatra | Papa! Mamma! Come out as fast as you 

ean. Quick. Quick. 

BENTLEY | Hello, governor! Come out. An aeroplane. 

Look, look. 

TARLETON [starting up] Aeroplane! Did he say an 
aeroplane? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Aeroplane! [A shadow falls on the 
pavilion; and some of the glass at the top is shattered and 
falls on the floor]. 

Tarleton and Lord Summerhays rush out through the pa- 
vilion into the garden. 


TIYpPATIA Take care. Take care of the 
chimney. 

BENTLEY Come this side: it’s coming right 
where youre standing. 

TARLETON Hallo! where the devil are you 
coming? youll have my roof 
off. 


Lorp Summernayrs | He’s lost control. 
Mrs Tarueton. Look, look, Hypatia. There are two 
people in it. 
Bent LEY. Theyve cleared it. Well steered! 
TARLETON Yes; but theyre coming slam into 
the greenhouse. 
Lorp SUMMERHAYS | Look out for the glass. 


Mrs Tarleton Theyll break all the glass. Theyll 
spoil all the grapes. 
BENTLEY Mind where youre coming. He'll 


save it. No: theyre down. 


Miusalliance AT 


An appalling crash of breaking glass is heard. Everybody 
shrieks. 
Mrs Tar.eton { Oh, are they killed? John: are they 


killed? 
Lorp SumMmeEr- | Are you hurt? Is anything broken? 
HAYS Can you stand? 
HyYPpatTia Oh, you must be hurt. Are you sure? 


Shall I get you some water? Or 
some wine? 

TARLETON Are you all right? Sure you wont have 
some brandy just to take off the 
shoek. 

THe Aviator. No, thank you. Quite right. Not a 

scrateh. I assure you I’m all right. 

BENTLEY. What luck! And what a smash! You are 
a lueky ehap, I ean tell you. 

The Aviator and Tarleton come in through the pavilion, 
followed by Lord Summerhays and Bentley, the Aviator on 
Tarleton’s right. Bentley passes the Aviator and turns to have 
an admiring look at him. Lord Summerhays overtakes Tarle- 
ton less pointedly on the opposite side with the same objeet. 

Tue Aviator. I’m really very sorry. I’m afraid Ive 
knoeked your vinery into a cocked hat. (Kffusively) You 
dont mind, do you? 

TARLETON. Not a bit. Come in and have some tea. 
Stay to dinner. Stay over the week-end. All my life Ive 
wanted to fly. 

Tur Aviator [taking off his goggles] Youre really more 
than kind. 

BENTLEY. Why, its Joey Pereival. 

Prercivau. Hallo, Ben! That you? 

TaRLETON. What! The man with three fathers! 

Prerctvau. Oh! has Ben been talking about me? 

Tar.LetTon. Consider yourself as one of the family—if 
you will do me the honor. And your friend too. Wheres 
your friend? 


AS Misallianee 


PERcIVAL. Oh, by the way! before he comes in: let me 
explain. I dont know him. 

TARLETON. Eh? 

PercivaL. Havnt even looked at him. I’m trying to 
make a club record with a passenger. The club supplied 
the passenger. He just got in; and Ive been too busy 
handling the aeroplane to look at him. I havnt said a 
word to him; and I cant answer for him socially; but 
hes an ideal passenger for a flyer. He saved me from a 
smash. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. I saw it. It was extraordinary. 
When you were thrown out he held on to the top bar 
with one hand. You came past him in the air, going 
straight for the glass. He caught you and turned you 
off into the flower bed, and then lighted beside you like 
a bird. 

PercivaLt. How he kept his head I cant imagine. 
Frankly, J didnt. 

The Passenger, also begoggled, comes in through the 
pavilion with Johnny and the two ladies. The Pas- 
senger comes between Percival and Tarleton, Mrs Tarle- 
ton between Lord Summcrhays and her husband, Hypatia 
between Percival and Bentley, and Johnny to Bentley’s 
right. 

TARLETON. Just discussing your prowess, my dear 
sir. Magnificent. Youll stay to dinner. Youll stay the 
night. Stay over the week. The Chickabiddy will be 
delighted. 

Mrs TarLeton. Wont you take off your goggles and 
have some tea? 

The Passenger begins to remove the goggles. 

TARLETON. Do. Have a wash. Johnny: take the gen- 
tleman to your room: [ll look after Mr Percival. They 
must— 

By this time the passenger has got the goggles off, and 
stands revealed as a remarkably good-looking woman. 


Misalliance 49 


Mrs TARLETON Well I never!!! 
BENTLEY [in a whisper] Oh, I say! 
J OHNNY By George! 
Lorp SuMMERHAYS | A lady! All 
HYPatvia A woman! together. 
‘TARLETON (to Percival| You never 
told me— 
PERCIVAL I hadnt the least idea— 


An embarrassed pause. 

Prercivau. I assure you if I’d had the faintest notion 
that my passenger was a lady I shouldnt have left you to 
shift for yourself in that selfish way. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. The lady seems to have shifted for 
both very effectually, sir. 

PERCIVAL. Saved my life. I admit it most grate- 
fully. 

TARLETON. I must apologize, madam, for having of- 
fered you the civilities appropriate to the opposite sex. 
And yet, why opposite? We are all human: males and 
females of the same species. When the dress is the same 
the distinction vanishes. I’m proud to receive in my 
house a lady of evident refinement and distinction. Allow 
me to introduce myself: Tarleton: John Tarleton (seeing 
conjecture in the passenger’s eye)—yes, yes: ‘Tarleton’s Un- 
derwear. My wife, Mrs Tarleton: youll excuse me for 
having in what I had taken to be a confidence between man 
and man alluded to her as the Chickabiddy. My daughter 
Hypatia, who has always wanted some adventure to drop 
out of the sky, and is now, I hope, satisfied at last. Lord 
Summerhays: a man known wherever the British flag 
waves. His sou Bentley, engaged to Hypatia. Mr Joseph 
Percival, the promising son of three highly intellectual 
fathers. 

Hypatta [startled] Bentley’s friend? [Bentley nods]. 

TARLETON [continuing, to the passenger} May I now ask 
to be allowed the pleasure of knowing your name? 


50 Misalliance 


Tuer PassenGER. My nameis Lina Szczepanowska [pro- 
nouncing it Sh-Chepanovska]. 

PrERcIVAL. Sh—— IJ beg your pardon? 

Lina. Szczepanowska. 

Prerctvau [dubiously] Thank you. 

TARLETON [very politely] Would you mind saying it again? 

Lina. Say fish. 

Tarveton. Fish. 

Lina. Say church. 

TARLETON. Church. 

Lina. Say fish church. 

TARLETON [remonstrating| But it’s not good sense. 

Lina [¢nexorable] Say fish church. 

TARLETON. Fish church. 

Lina. Again. 

TARLETON. No, but—[restgning himself] fish church. 

Lina. Now say Szcezepanowska. 

TARLETON. Szcezepanowska. Got it, by Gad. [A szbi- 
lant whispering becomes audible: they are all saying Sh-ch to 
themselves]. Szczepanowska! Not an English name, 
is it? 

Lina. Polish. I’m a Pole. 

TARLETON. Ah yes. Interesting nation. Lucky people 
to get the government of their country taken off their 
hands. Nothing to do but cultivate themselves. Same 
as we took Gibraltar off the hands of the Spaniards. Saves 
the Spanish taxpayer. Jolly good thing for us if the Ger- 
mans took Portsmouth. Sit down, wont you? 

The group breaks up. Johnny and Bentley hurry to the 
pavilion and fetch the two wicker chairs. Johnny gives his to 
Lina. Hypatia and Percival take the chairs at the worktable. 
Lord Summerhays gives the chair at the vestibule end of the 
writing table to Mrs Tarleton; and Bentley replaces it with a 
wicker chair, which Lord Summerhays takes. Johnny re- 
mains standing behind the worktable, Bentley behind his 
father. 


Misalliance 51 


Mrs Tarteton {to Lina] Havesome tea now, wont you? 

Lina. I never drink tea. 

TARLETON [sitting down at the end of the writing table 
nearest Lina] Bad thing to aeroplane on, I should imagine. 
Too jumpy. Been up much? 

Lina. Notin an aeroplane. Ive parachuted; but thats 
child’s play. 

Mrs Tarteton. But arnt you very foolish to run such a 
dreadful risk? 

Lina. You cant live without running risks. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, what a thing to say! Didnt you 
know you might have been killed? 

Lina. That was why I went up. 

Hypatia. Of course. Cant you understand the fasci- 
nation of the thing? the novelty! the daring! the sense of 
something happening! 

Lina. Ohno. It’s too tame a business for that. I went 
up for family reasons. 

TarLeEToN. Eh? What? Family reasons? 

Mrs Tarwteton. I hope it wasnt to spite your mother? 

PrERcivaL [quickly] Or your husband? 

Lina. [P’mnot married. And why should J want to spite 
my mother? 

Hypatia [aside to Percival] That was clever of you, Mr 
Percival. 

PrercivaLt. What? 

Hyeratra. To find out. 

TarwtETon. I’m in a difficulty. I cant understand a 
lady going up in an aeroplane for family reasons. It’s 
rude to be curious and ask questions; but then it’s inhu- 
man to be indifferent, as if you didnt care. 

Lina. J'Il tell you with pleasure. For the last hundred 
and fifty years, not a single day has passed without some 
member of my family risking his life—or her life. It’s 
a point of honor with us to keep up that tradition. Usu- 
ally several of us do it; but it happens that just at this 


52 Misalliance 


moment it is being kept up by one of my brothers only. 
Early this morning I got a telegram from him to say that 
there had been a fire, and that he could do nothing for the 
rest of the week. Fortunately [ had an invitation from the 
Aerial League to see this gentleman try to break the pas- 
senger record. I appealed to the President of the League 
to let me save the honor of my family. He arranged it 
for me. 

TARLETON. Oh, I must be dreaming. This is stark rav- 
ing nonsense. 

Lina [quietly] You are quite awake, sir. 

JouNNY. We cant all be dreaming the same thing, 
Governor. 

TARLETON. Of course not, you duffer; but then I’m 
dreaming you as well as the lady. 

Mrs Taruteton. Dont be silly, John. The lady is only 
joking, I'm sure. [Zo Lina] I suppose your luggage is in 
the aeroplane. 

PrrcivaL. Luggage was out of the question. If I stay 
to dinner I’m afraid I cant change unless youll lend me 
some clothes. 

Mrs Tarteton. Do you mean neither of you? 

PercivaL. I’m afraid so. 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh well, never mind: Hypatia will 
lend the lady a gown. 

Lina. Thank you: I’m quite comfortable as I am. 
I am not accustomed to gowns: they hamper me and 
make me feel ridiculous; so if you dont mind I shall not 
change. 

Mrs Taruteton. Well, I’m beginning to think I’m doing 
a bit of dreaming myself. 

Hypatia [impatiently] Oh, it’s all right, mamma. 
Johnny: look after Mr. Percival. [To Lina, rising] Come 
with me. 

Lina follows her to the inner door. They all rise. 

JOHNNY [to Percival] Dll shew you. 


Misalliance 53 


Prercivau. Thank you. 

Lina goes out with Hypatia, and Percival with Johnny. 

Mrs Tarteton. Well, this is a nice thing to happen! 
And look at the greenhouse! Itll cost thirty pounds to 
mend it. People have no right to do such things. And 
you invited them to dinner too! What sort of woman is 
that to have in our house when you know that all Hindhead 
will be ealling on us to see that aeroplane? Bunny: come 
with me and help me to get all the people out of the 
grounds: I declare they came running as if theyd sprung 
up out of the earth [she makes for the inner door]. 

TaRLeETON. No: dont you trouble, Chickabiddy: I'll 
taekle em. 

Mrs Tarueton. Indeed youll do nothing of the kind: 
youll stay here quietly with Lord Summerhays. Youd 
invite them all to dinner. Come, Bunny. [She goes out, 
followed by Bentley. Lord Summerhays sits down again]. 

TARLETON. Singularly beautiful woman, Summerhays. 
What do you make of her? She must be a princess. Whats 
this family of warriors and statesmen that risk their lives 
every day? 

Lorp SumMERHAYs. They are evidently not warriors 
and statesmen, or they wouldnt do that. 

TaRLeETON. Well, then, who the devil are they? 

Lorp SumMErRHAYs. I think I know. The last time I 
saw that lady, she did something I should not have thought 
possible. 

TarLeton. What was that? 

Lorp SumMeErRuAys. Well, she walked backwards along 
a taut wire without a balancing pole and turned a somer- 
sault in the middle. I remember that her name was Lina, 
and that the other name was foreign; though I dont reeol- 
leet it. 

TARLETON. Szez! You couldnt have forgotten that if 
youd heard it. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYsS. I didnt hear it: I only saw it ona 


54 Misalliance 


program. But it’s clear shes an acrobat. It explains how 
she saved Percival. And it accounts for her family pride. 

TarLETON. An acrobat, eh? Good, good, good! Sum- 
merhays: that brings her within reach. Thats better than 
a princess. I steeled this evergreen heart of mine when I 
thought she was a princess. Now I shall let it be touched. 
She is accessible. Good. 

Lorp SummeruHAys. I hope you are not serious. Re- 
member: you have a family. You have a position. You 
are not in your first youth. 

TaRLETON. No matter. 


Theres magic in the night 
When the heart is young. 


My heart is young. Besides, ’m a married man, not a 
widower like you. A married man can do anything he likes 
if his wife dont mind. A widower cant be too careful. Not 
that I would have you think me an unprincipled man or a 
bad husband. I’m not. But Ive a superabundance of vi- 
tality. Read Pepys’ Diary. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYs. The woman is your guest, Tarleton. 

TARLETON. Well, is she? A woman I bring into my 
house is my guest. A woman you bring into my house Is 
my guest. But a woman who drops bang down out of the 
sky into my greenhouse and smashes every blessed pane of 
glass in it must take her chance. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. Still, you know that my name must 
not be associated with any scandal. Youll be careful, 
wont you? 

Tar.Leton. Oh Lord, yes. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I 
was only joking, of course. 

Mrs Tarleton comes back through the inner door. 

Mrs Tarteton. Well I never! John: I dont think that 
young woman’s right in her head. Do you know what shes 
just asked for? 

TARLETON. Champagne? 


Misalliance 55 


Mrs Tarteron. No. She wants a Bible and six oranges. 

TaRLETON. What? 

Mrs Tarueton. A Bible and six oranges. 

Tar.LetTon. I understand the oranges: shes doing an 
orange cure of some sort. But what on earth does she want 
the Bible for? 

Mrs Tar.eton. I’m sure I cant imagine. She cant be 
right in her head. 

Lorp SuUMMERHAYS. Perhaps she wants to read it. 

Mrs Tar.teton. But why should she,on a weekday, at 
all events. What would you advise me to do, Lord Sum- 
merhays? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Well, is there a Bible in the house? 

TARLETON. Stacks of em. Theres the family Bible, and 
the Doré Bible, and the parallel revised version Bible, and 
the Doves Press Bible, and Johnny’s Bible and Bobby’s 
Bible and Patsy’s Bible, and the Chickabiddy’s Bible and 
my Bible; and I daresay the servants could raise a few 
more between them. Let her have the lot. 

Mrs Tarueton. Dont talk like that before Lord Sum- 
merhays, John. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. It doesnt matter, Mrs Tarleton: in 
Jinghiskahn it was a punishable offence to expose a Bible 
for sale. The empire has no religion. 

Lina comes in. She has left her cap in Hypatia’s room. 
She stops on the landing just inside the door, and speaks over 
the handrail. 

Lina. Oh, Mrs Tarleton, shall I be making myself 
very troublesome if I ask for a music-stand in my room 
as well? 

TaRLETON. Not at all. You can have the piano if you 
like. Or the gramophone. Have the gramophone. 

Lina. No, thank you: no music. 

Mrs Tareton [going to the steps] Do you think it’s 
good for you to eat so many oranges? Arnt you afraid of 
getting jaundice? 


56 Misalliance 


Lina [coming down] Not:in the least. But billiard balls 
will do quite as well. 

Mrs Tarueton. But you cant eat billiard balls, child! 

TARLETON. Get em, Chickabiddy. I understand. [He 
emitates a juggler tossing up balls]. Eh? 

Lina [going to him, past his wife] Just so. 

TARLETON. Billiard balls and cues. Plates, knives, and 
forks. Two paraffin lamps and a hatstand. 

Lina. No: that is popular low-class business. In our 
family we touch nothing but classical work. Anybody can 
do lamps and hatstands. J can do silver bullets. That is 
really hard. [She passes on to Lord Summerhays, and looks 
gravely down at him as he stts by the writing table]. 

Mrs Taruteton. Well, ?m sure I dont know what youre 
talking about; and J only hope you know yourselves. 
However, you shall have what you want, of course. [She 
goes up the steps and leaves the room|. 

Lorp Summeruays. Will you forgive my curiosity? 
What is the Bible for? 

Lina. To quiet my soul. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS [with a sigh] Ah yes, yes. It no 
longer quiets mine, [ am sorry to say. 

Lina. That is because you do not know how to read it. 
Put it up before you on a stand; and open it at the Psalms. 
When you can read them and understand them, quite 
quietly and happily, and keep six balls in the air all the 
time, you are in perfect condition; and youll never make 
a mistake that evening. If you find you cant do that, then 
go and pray until you can. And be very careful that 
evening. 

Lorp Summeruays. Is that the usual form of test in 
your profession? 

Lina. Nothing that we Szczepanowskis do is usual, my 
lord. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Are you all so wonderful? 

Lina. It is our profession to be wonderful. 


Misalliance 57 


Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Do you never eondeseend to do 
as common people do? For instance, do you not pray as 
common people pray? 

Lina. Common people do not pray, my lord: they only 
beg. 

Lorp SumMERuHAYS. You never ask for anything? 

Lina. No. 

Lorp SumMeEruHAyYs. Then why do you pray? 

Lina. To remind myself that I have a soul. 

TARLETON [walking about] True. Fine. Good. Beau- 
tiful. All this damned materialism: what good is it to 
anybody? Ive got a soul: dont tell me I havnt. Cut me 
up and you cant find it. Cut up a steam engine and you 
cant find the steam. But, by George, it makes the engine 
go. Say what you will, Summerhays, the divine spark is 
adel 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. Have I denied it? 

TARLETON. Our whole eivilization is a dental of it. 
Read Walt Whitman. 

Lorp Summeruays. I shall go to the billiard room and 
get the balls for you. 

Lina. Thank you. 

Lord Summerhays goes out through the vestibule door. 

TARLETON [going to her| Listen to me. [She turns 
quickly|. What you said just now was beautiful. You 
touch chords. You appeal to the poetry im a man. You 
inspire him. Come now! Youre a woman of the world: 
youre independent: you must have driven lots of men 
crazy. You know the sort of man I am, dont you? See 
through me at a glance, eh? 

Lina. Yes. [She sits down quietly in the chair Lord 
Summerhays has just left). 

TARLETON. Good. Well, do you like me? Dont mis- 
understand me: I’m perfectly aware that youre not 
going to fall in love at first sight with a ridiculous old 
shopkeeper. I cant help that ridiculous old shopkeeper. I 


58 Misalliance 


have to carry him about with me whether [ like it or not. 
I have to pay for his clothes, though I hate the cut of 
them: especially the waistcoat. I have to look at him in 
the glass while I’m shaving. I loathe him because hes a 
living lie. My soul’s not like that: it’s hke yours. I want 
to make a fool of myself. About you. Will you let me? 

Lina [very calm] How much will you pay? 

TaRLETON. Nothing. But TIl throw as many sover- 
elgns as you like into the sea to shew you that I’m in 
earnest. 

Lina. Are those your usual terms? 

TARLETON. No. I never made that bid before. 

Lina [producing a dainty little book and preparing to write 
in it] What did you say your name was? 

TARLETON. John Tarleton. The great John Tarleton 
of Tarleton’s Underwear. 

Lina [writing] T-a-r-l-e-t-o-n. Er——? [She looks up 
at him inquiringly]. 

TARLETON [promptly] Fifty-eight. 

Lina. Thank you. I keep a list of all my offers. I like 
to know what I’m considered worth. 

TARLETON. Let me look. 

Lina [offering the book to him] It’s in Polish. 

TARLETON. Thats no good. Is mine the lowest offer? 

Lina. No: the highest. 

TARLETON. What do most of them come to? Dia- 
monds? Motor cars? Furs? Villa at Monte Carlo? 

Lina. Oh yes: all that. And sometimes the devotion 
of a lifetime. 

TARLETON. Fancy that! A young man offering a 
woman his old age as a temptation! 

Lina. By the way, you did not say how long. 

TARLETON. Until you get tired of me. 

Lina. Or until you get tired of me? 

TARLETON. I never get tired. I never go on long 
enough for that. But when it becomes so grand, so in- 


Misalliance 59 


spiring that I feel that everything must be an anti-climax 
after that, then [I run away. 

Lina. Does she let you go without a struggle? 

TARLETON. Yes. Glad to get rid of me. When love 
takes a man as it takes me—when it makes him great— 
it frightens a woman. 

Lina. The lady here is your wife, isnt she? Dont you 
care for her? 

TARLETON. Yes. And mind! she comes first always. I 
reserve her dignity even when I sacrifice my own. Youll 
respect that point of honor, wont you? 

Lina. Only a point of honor? 

TARLETON [tmpulsively] No, by God! a point of affec- 
tion as well. 

Lina [smiling, pleased with him] Shake hands, old pal 
[she rises and offers him her hand frankly]. 

TARLETON [giving his hand rather dolefully] Thanks. 
That means no, doesnt it? 

Lina. It means something that will last longer than yes. 
I like you. I admit you to my friendship. What a pity 
you were not trained when you were young! Youd be 
young still. 

TaRLETON. I suppose, to an athlete like you, I’m pretty 
awful, eh? 

Lina. Shocking. 

TaRLETON. Too much crumb. Wrinkles. Yellow 
patches that wont come off. Short wind. I know. I’m 
ashamed of myself. I could do nothing on the high rope. 

Lina. Oh yes: I could put you in a wheelbarrow and 
run you along, two hundred feet up. 

TARLETON |shuddering] Ugh! Well, I’d do even that 
for you. Read The Master Builder. 

Lina. Have you learnt everything from books? 

TARLETON. Well, have you learnt everything from the 
flying trapeze? 

Lina. On the flying trapeze there is often another 


60 Misalliance 


woman; and her life is in your hands every night and 
your life in hers. 

TarRLeton. Lina: I’m going to make a fool of myself. 
I’m going to cry [he crumples into the nearest chair]. 

Lina. Pray instead: dont cry. Why should you ery? 
Youre not the first I’ve said no to. 

TARLETON. If you had said yes, should I have been the 
first then? 

Lina. What right have you to ask? Have I asked am J 
the first? 

TARLETON. Youre right: a vulgar question. Toa man 
like me, everybody is the first. Life renews itself. 

Lina. The youngest child is the sweetest. 

TARLETON. Dont probe too deep, Lina. It hurts. 

Lina. You must get out of the habit of thinking that 
these things matter so much. It’s linendraperish. 

TARLETON. Youre quite right. Ive often said so. All 
the same, it does matter; for I want to ery. [He buries 
his face in his arms on the work-table and sobs}. 

Lina [going to him] Olala! [She slaps him vigorously, 
but not unkindly, on the shoulder]. Courage, old pal, cour- 
age! Have you a gymnasium here? 

TARLETON. Theres a trapeze and bars and things in the 
billiard room. 

Lina. Come. You need a few exercises. I'll teach you 
how to stop erying. [She takes his arm and leads him off 
into the vestibule]. 

A young man, cheaply dressed and strange in manner, ap- 
pears in the garden; steals to the pavilion door; and looks in. 
Seeing that there is nobody, he enters cautiously until he has 
come far enough to see into the hatstand corner. He draws a 
revolvcr, and examines it, apparently to make sure that tt zs 
loaded. Then his attention ts caught by the Turkish batn. 
He looks down the lunette, and opens the panels. 

Hypatra [calling in the garden] Mr Percival! Mr Per- 
cival! Where are you? 


Misalliance 61 


The young man makes for the door, but sees Percival com- 
ing. He turns and bolts into the Turkish bath, which he closes 
upon himself just in time to escape being caught by Perevval, 
who runs in through the pavilion, bareheaded. He also, it 
appears, is in search of a hiding-place; for he stops and 
turns between the two tables to take a survey of the room; then 
runs into the corner between the end of the sideboard and the 
wall. Hypatta, excited, mischievous, her eyes glowing, runs 
in, precisely on his trail; turns at the same spot; and discov- 
ers him just as he makes a dash for the pavilion door. She 
flies back and intercepts him. 

Hypatia. Aha! arnt you glad Ive caught you? 

PEeRcIVAL [zllhumoredly turning away from her and com- 
ing towards the writing table) No I’m not. Confound it, 
what sort of girl are you? What sort of house is this? 
Must [I throw all good manners to the winds? 

Hypatia [following him] Do, do, do, do, do. This is the 
house of a respectable shopkeeper, enormously rich. This 
is the respectable shopkeeper’s daughter, tired of good 
manners. [Slipping her left hand into his right] Come, 
handsome young man, and play with the respectable shop- 
keeper’s daughter. 

PerRcIvAL [withdrawing quickly from her touch] No, no: 
dont you know you mustnt go on like this with a perfect 
stranger? 

Hypatia. Dropped down from the sky. Dont you know 
that you must always go on like this when you get the 
chance? You must come to the top of the hill and chase me 
through the bracken. You may kiss me if you catch me. 

Percivau. I shall do nothing of the sort. 

Hypatia. Yes you will: you cant help yourself. Come 
along. [She seizes his sleeve]. Fool, fool: come along. 
Dont you want to? 

PercivaL. No: certainly not. I should never be for- 
given if [ did it. 

Hypatia. Youll never forgive yourself if you dont. 


62 Misalliance 


PrercivaLt. Nonsense. Youre engaged to Ben. Ben’s 
my friend. What do you take me for? 

Hypatia. Ben’s old. Ben was born old. Theyre all 
old here, except you and me and the man-woman or 
woman-man or whatever you call her that came with you. 
They never do anything: they only discuss whether what 
other people do is right. Come and give them something 
to discuss. 

Prrcivau. I will do nothing incorrect. 

Hypatia. Oh, dont be afraid, little boy: youll get 
nothing but a kiss; and I'll fight like the devil to keep 
you from getting that. But we must play on the hill and 
race through the heather. 

PercivaL. Why? 

Hypatia. Because we want to, handsome young man. 

PercivaL. But if everybody went on in this way— 

Hypatia. How happy! oh how happy the world would 
be! 

PEercivaL. But the consequences may be serious. 

Hypatra. Nothing is worth doing unless the conse- 
quences may be serious. My father says so; and I’m my 
father’s daughter. 

Prercivau. I’m the son of three fathers. I mistrust 
these wild impulses. 

Hypatia. Take care. Youre letting the moment slip. 
I feel the first chill of the wave of prudence. Save me. 

Prrcivau. Really, Miss Tarleton [she strikes him across 
the face|— Damn you! [Recovering himself, horrified at his 
lapse| I beg your pardon; but since weve both forgotten 
ourselves, youll please allow me to leave the house. [He 
turns towards the inner door, having left his cap in the bed- 
room|. ‘ 

Hypatia [standing in his way| Are you ashamed of hav- 
ing said ““Damn you”’ to me? 

Percivau. I had no right to say it. Pm very much 
ashamed of it. I have already begged your pardon. 


Misalliance 63 


HypatrA. And youre not ashamed of having said 
“Really, Miss Tarleton.” 

PrercivaL. Why should I? 

Hypatra. O man, man! mean, stupid, cowardly, 
selfish masculine male man! You ought to have been a 
governess. I was expelled from school for saying that 
the very next person that said “‘ Really, Miss Tarleton,” 
to me, I would strike her across the face. You were the 
next. 

Percivau. I had no intention of being offensive. Surely 
there is nothing that can wound any lady in—[Ie hest- 
tates, not quite convinced]. At least—er—I really didnt 
mean to be disagreeable. 

Hypatra. Liar. 

Prrcivau. Of course if youre going to insult me, I am 
quite helpless. Youre a woman: you can say what you 
like. 

Hypatra. And you can only say what you dare. Poor 
wretch: itisnt much. [He bites his lip, and sits down, very 
much annoyed]. Really, Mr Percival! You sit down in the 
presence of a lady and leave her standing. [He rises 
hastily). Ha, ha! Really, Mr Percival! Oh really, really, 
really, really, really, Mr Percival! How do you like it? 
Wouldnt you rather I damned you? 

Percitvaut. Miss Tarleton— 

Hypatia [caressingly] Hypatia, Joey.” Patsy, if you 
like. 

PercivaL. Look here: this is no good. You want to do 
what you like? 

Hypatia. Dont you? 

PrercivaL. No. Ive been too well brought up. Ive 
argued all through this thing; and I tell you ’'m not pre- 
pared to cast off the social bond. It’s like a corset: it’s a 
support to the figure even if it does squeeze and deform it 
abit. I want to be free. 

Hypatra. Well, ?'m tempting you to be free. 


64 -Misalliance 


PercivaL. Not at all. Freedom, my good girl, means 
being able to count on how other people will behave. If 
every man who dislikes me is to throw a handful of mud 
in my face, and every woman who likes me is to behave 
like Potiphar’s wife, then I shall be a slave: the slave of 
uncertainty: the slave of fear: the worst of all slaveries. 
How would you like it if every laborer you met in the 
road were to make love to you?) No. Give me the blessed 
protection of a good stiff conventionality among thor- 
oughly well-brought up ladies and gentlemen. 

Hypatia. Another talker! Men like conventions be- 
cause men made them. I didnt make them: I dont like 
them: JI wont keep them. Now, what will you do? 

' Percivau. Bolt. [le runs out through the pavilion]. 
Hypatia. Tl catch you. [She dashes off in pursuit}. 
During this conversation the head of the scandalized man in 

the Turkish bath has repeatedly risen from the lunette, with a 

strong expression of moral shock. It vanishes abruptly as the 

two turn towards it in their flight. At the same moment 

Tarleton comes back through the vestibule door, exhausted by 

severe and unaccustomed exercise. 

TARLETON [looking after the flying figures with amazement} 
Hallo, Patsy: whats up? Another aeroplane? [They are 
far too preoccupied to hear him; and he is left staring after 
them as they rush away through the garden. He goes to the 
pavilion door and looks up; but the heavens are empty. His 
exhaustion disables him from further inquiry. He dabs his 
brow with his handkerchief, and walks stiffly to the nearest 
convenient support, which happens to be the Turkish bath. 
He props himself upon it with his elbow, and covers his eyes 
with his hand for a moment. After a few sighing breaths, he 
feels a little better, and uncovers his eyes. The man’s head 
rises from the lunette a few inches from his nose. He recoils 
from the bath with a violent start], Oh Lord! My brain’s 
gone. [Calling piteously| Chickabiddy! [He staggers down 
to the writing table}. 


Misalliance 65 


Tue Man [coming out of the bath, pistol in hand] Another 
sound; and youre a dead man. 

TARLETON [braced] Am I? Well, youre a live one: 
thats one comfort. I thought you were a ghost. [le sits 
down, quite undisturbed by the pistol] Who are you; and 
what the devil were you doing in my new Turkish bath? 

Tue MAN [with tragic intensity] Iam the son of Lucinda 
Titmus. 

TARLETON [the name conveying nothing to him] Indeed? 
And how is she? Quite well, I hope, eh? 

Tut Man. She is dead. Dead, my God! and youre 
alive. 

TARLETON [unzmpressed by the tragedy, but sympathetic] 
Oh! Lost your mother? Thats sad. I’m sorry. But we 
cant all have the luek to survive our mothers, and be nursed 
out of the world by the hands that nursed us into it. 

Tue Man. Much you care, damn you! 

TARLETON. Oh, dont cut up rough. Face it like a man. 
You see I didnt know your mother; but Ive no doubt she 
was an excellent woman. 

Tue Man. Not know her! Do you dare to stand there 
by her open grave and deny that you knew her? 

TARLETON [trying to recollect] What did you say her 
name was? 

Tue Man. Lucinda Titmus. 

TARLETON. Well, I ought to remember a rum name like 
that if I ever heard it. But I dont. Have you a photo- 
graph or anything? 

Tue Man. Forgotten even the name of your vietim! 

TARLETON. Oh! she was my vietim, was she? 

Tue Man. She was. And you shall see her face again 
before you die, dead as she is. I have a photograph. 

TARLETON. Good. 

Tue Man. Ive two photographs. 

TARLETON. Still better. Treasure the mother’s pie- 
tures. Good boy! 


66 Misalliance 


Tue Man. One of them as you knew her. The other as 
she became when you flung her aside, and she withered 
into an old woman. 

TarueEtTon. She'd have done that anyhow. my lad. We 
all grow old. Look at me! [Seeing that the man is embar- 
rassed by his pistol in fumbling for the photographs with 
his left hand in his breast pocket] Let me hold the gun for 
you. 

Tue MAN [retreating to the worktable| Stand back. Do 
you take me for a fool? 

TarLeTon. Well, youre a little upset, naturally. It 
does you credit. 

Tue Man. Look here, upon this picture and on this. 
{He holds out the two photographs like a hand at cards, and 
points to them with the pistol]. 

TARLETON. Good. Read Shakespear: he has a word for 
every occasion. [J/e takes the photographs, one in each hand, 
and looks from one to the other, pleased and interested, but 
without any sign of recognition] What a pretty girl! Very 
pretty. I can imagine myself falling in love with her when 
I was yourage. I wasnt a bad-looking young fellow myself 
in those days. [Looking at the other| Curious that we 
should both have gone the same way. 

Tue Man. You and she the same way! What do you 
mean ? 

TARLETON. Both got stout, I mean. 

Tue Man. Would you have had her deny herself food? 

TARLETON. No: it wouldnt have been any use. It’s 
constitutional. No matter how little you eat you put on 
flesh if youre made that way. [He resumes his study of the 
earlier photograph|. 

Tue Man. Is that all the feeling that rises in you at the 
sight of the face you once knew so well? 

TARLETON [too much absorbed in the portrait to heed him] 
Funny that I cant remember! Let this be a lesson to you, 
young man. [ could go into court tomorrow and swear 


Misalliance 67 


T never saw that face before in my life if it wasnt for that 
brooch [pointing to the photograph]. Have you got that 
brooch, by the way? [The man again resoris to his breast 
pocket]. You seem to carry the whole family property in 
that pocket. 

Ture Man [producing a brooch] Here it is to prove my 
bona fides. 

TARLETON [penstvely putting the photographs on the table 
and taking the brooch] I bought that brooch in Cheapside 
from a man with a yellow wig and a cast in his left eye. 
Ive never set cyes on him from that day to this. And yet 
I remember that man; and I cant remember your mother. 

Tue Man. Monster! Without conscience! without 
even memory! You left her to her shame— 

TARLETON [throwing the brooch on the table and rising 
pepperily] Come, come, young man! none of that. Re- 
spect the romance of your mother’s youth. Dont you 
start throwing stones at her. I dont recall her features just 
at this moment; but Ive no doubt she was kind to me and 
we were happy together. If you have a word to say against 
her, take yourself out of my house and say it elsewhere. 

Tue Man. What sort of a joker are you? Are you try- 
ing to put me in the wrong, when you have to answer to 
me for a crime that would make cvery honest man spit at 
you as you passed in the street if I were to make it known? 

TARLETON. You read a good deal, dont you? 

Tue Man. What if I do? What has that to do with 
your infamy and my mother’s doom? 

TARLETON. There, you see! Doom! Thats not good 
sense; but it’s literature. Now it happens that I’m a tre- 
mendous reader: always was. When I was your age I 
read books of that sort by the bushel: the Doom sort, you 
know. It’s odd, isnt it, that you and I should be like onc 
another in that respect? Can you account for it in any 
way? 

Tue Man. No. What are you driving at? 


68 Misalliance 


TARLETON. Well, do you know who your father was? 

THe Man. I see what you mean now. You dare set up 
to be my father. Thank heaven Ive not a drop of your 
vile blood in my veins. 

TARLETON [sitting down again witha shrug] Well, if you 
wont be eivu, theres no pleasure in talking to you, is there? 
What do you want? Money? 

THe Man. How dare you insult me? 

TarLeETON. Well, what do you want? 

THe Man. Justiee. 

TARLETON. Youre quite sure thats all? 

Tue Man. It’s enough for me. 

Tar.LetTon. A modest sort of demand, isnt it? Nobody 
ever had it since the world began, fortunately for them- 
selves; but you must have it, must you? Well, youve 
eome to the wrong shop for it: youll get no justice here: 
we dont keep it. Human nature is what we stoek. 

Tue Man. Human nature! Debauchery! gluttony! 
selfishness! robbery of the poor! Is that what you call 
human nature? 

TARLETON. No: thats what you eallit. Come, my lad! 
Whats the matter with you? You dont look starved; 
and youve a deeent suit of clothes. 

Tne Man. Forty-two shillings. 

TARLETON. They ean do you a very deeent suit for 
forty-two shillings. Have you paid for it? 

Tue Man. Do you take me for a thief? And do you 
suppose I ean get eredit like you? 

TarRLeETON. Then you were able to lay your hand on 
forty-two shillings. Judging from your eonversational 
style, I should think you must spend at least a shilling a 
week on romantic literature. 

Tur Man. Where would I get a shilling a week to spend 
on books when [I ean hardly keep myself deeent? I get 
books at the Free Library. 

TARLETON [springing to his feet] What!!! 


Misalliance 69 


THe Man [recoiling before his vehemence] The Free 
Library. Theres no harm in that. 

TARLETON. Ingrate! I supply you with free books; and 
the use you make of them is to persuade yourself that it’s 
a fine thing to shoot me. [Ie throws himself doggedly back 
into his chair]. Vil never give another penny to a Free 
Library. 

THe Man. Youll never give another penny to any- 
thing. This is the end: for you and me. 

TARLETON. Pooh! Come, come, man! talk business. 
Whats wrong? Are you out of employment? 

THe Man. No. This is my Saturday afternoon. Dont 
flatter yourself that I’m a loafer or a criminal. [’m a 
cashier; and I defy you to say that my cash has ever been 
a farthing wrong. Ive a right to call you to account be- 
cause my hands are clean. 

TARLETON. Well, call away. What have I to account 
for? Had you a hard time with your mother? Why didnt 
she ask me for money? 

THE Man. She’d have died first. Besides, who wanted 
your money? Do you suppose we lived in the gutter? My 
father maynt have been in as large a way as you; but he 
was better connected; and his shop was as respectable as 
yours. 

TARLETON. I suppose your mother brought him a little 
capital. 

Tue Man. I dont know. Whats that got to do with 
you? 

TARLETON. Well, you say she and I knew one another 
and parted. She must have had something off me then, 
you know. One doesnt get out of these things for nothing. 
Hang it, young man: do you suppose Ive no heart? Of 
course she had her due; and she found a husband with it, 
and set him up in business with it, and brought vou up 
respeetably; so what the devil have you to complain of? 

Tue Man. Are women to be ruined with impunity? 


70 Misalhance 


TARLETON. I havnt ruined any woman that I'm aware 
of. Ive been the’ making of you and your mother. 

Tue Man. Oh, I’m a fool to listen to you and argue 
with you. I came here to kill you and then kill myself. 

TARLETON. Begin with yourself, if you dont mind. 
Ive a good deal of business to do still before I die. Havnt 
you? 

Tue Man. No. Thats just it: Ive no business to do. 
Do you know what my life is? I spend my days from 
nine to six—nine hours of daylight and fresh air—in a 
stuffy little den counting another man’s money. Ive an 
intellect: a mind and a brain and a soul; and the use he 
makes of them is to fix them on his tuppences and his 
eighteenpences and his two pound seventeen and tenpences 
and see how much they come to at the end of the day 
and take care that no one steals them. I enter and enter, 
and add and add, and take money and give change, and 
fill cheques and stamp receipts; and not a penny of that 
money is my own: not one of those transactions has the 
smallest interest for me or anyone else in the world but 
him; and even he couldnt stand it if he had to do it all 
himself. And I’m envied: aye, envied for the variety and 
liveliness of my job, by the poor devil of a bookkeeper 
that has to copy all my entries over again. Fifty thousand 
entries a year that poor wretch makes; and not ten out 
of the fifty thousand ever has to be referred to again; and 
when all the figures are counted up and the balance sheet 
made out, the boss isnt a penny the richer than he’d be if 
bookkeeping had never been invented. Of all the dam- 
nable waste of human life that ever was invented, clerking 
is the very worst. 

TaRLETON. Why not join the territorials? 

Tue Man. Because I shouldnt be let. He hasnt even 
the sense to see that it would pay him to get some cheap 
soldiering out of me. How can a man tied to a desk from 
nine to six be anything—be even a man, let alone a sol- 


Misalliance 71 


dier? But Tll teach him and you a lesson. Ive had 
enough of living a dog’s life and despising myself for it. 
Ive had enough of being talked down to by hogs like you, 
and wearing my life out for a salary that wouldnt keep you 
in cigars. Youll never believe that a clerk’s a man until 
one of us makes an example of one of you. 

TARLETON. Despotism tempered by assassination, el? 

Tue Man. Yes. Thats what they doin Russia. Well, a 
business office is Russia as far as the clerks are concerned. 
So dont you take it so coolly. You think I’m not going to 
do it; but I am. 

TARLETON [rising and facing him] Come, now, as man 
to man! It’s not my fault that youre poorer than I am; 
and it’s not your fault that I’m richer than you. And if 
you could undo all that passed between me and your 
mother, you wouldnt undoit; and neither would she. But 
youre sick of your slavery; and you want to be the hero of 
2 romance and to get into the papers. Eh? A son revenges 
his mother’s shame. Villain weltering in his gore. Mother: 
look down from heaven and receive your unhappy son’s 
last sigh. 

THe Man. Oh, rot! do you think I read novelettes? 
And do you suppose I believe such superstitions as 
heaven? JI go to chureh because the boss told me I'd get 
the sack if I didnt. Free England! Ha! [Lina appears at 
the pavilion door, and comes swiftly and noiselessly forward 
on seeing the man with a pistol in his hand]. 

TARLETON. Youre afraid of getting the sack; but 
youre not afraid to shoot yourself. 

THe Man. Damn you! youre trying to keep me talking 
until somebody comes. [He raises the pistol desperately, but 
not very resolutely}. 

Lina [at his right elbow] Somebody has come. 

Tue MAN [turning on her] Stand off. [ll shoot you if 
you lay a hand on me. I will, by God. 

Lina. You cant cover me with that pistol. Try. 


72 Musalliance 


He tries, presenting the pistol at her face. She moves round 
him in the opposite direction to the hands of a clock with a light 
dancing step. He finds it tmpossible to cover her with the 
pistol: she is always too far to his left. Tarleton, behind him, 
grips his wrist and drags his arm straight up, so that the pistol 
potnts to the ceiling. As he tries to turn on his assailant, Lina 
grips his other wrist. 

Lina. Please stop. I cant bear to twist anyone’s wrist; 
but I must if you dont let the pistol go. 

Tue Man [letting Tarleton take it from him] All right: 
I’m done. Couldnt even do that job decently. Thats a 
clerk all over. Very well: send for your damned police 
and make an end of it. I’m accustomed to prison from nine 
to six: I daresay I can stand it from six to nine as well. 

TARLETON. Dont swear. Thats a lady. [He throws the 
pistol on the writing table). 

Tue Man [looking at Lina in amazement] Beaten by a 
female! It needed only this. [le collapses in the chair 
near the worktable, and hides his face. They cannot help 
pitying him}. 

Lina. Old pal: dont call the police. Lend him a bicycle 
and let him get away. 

Tue Man. I cant ride a bicycle. I never could afford 
one. I’m not even that much good. 

TARLETON. If I gave you a hundred pound note now to 
go and have a good spree with, I wonder would you know 
how to set about it. Do you ever take a holiday? 

Tue Man. Take! I got four days last August. 

TARLETON. What did you do? 

Tue Man. I did a cheap trip to Folkestone. I spent 
sevenpence on dropping pennies into silly automatic ma- 
chines and peepshows of rowdy girls having a jolly time. 
I spent a penny on the lift and fourpence on refreshments. 
That cleaned me out. The rest of the time I was so miser- 
able that I was glad to get back to the office. Now you 
know. 


Misalliance 13 


Lina. Come to the gymnasium: I’ll teach you how to 
make a man of yourself. [The man its about to rise irreso- 
lutely, from the mere habit of doing what he is told, when 
Tarleton stops him]. 

TARLETON. Young man: dont. Youve tried to shoot 
me; but I’m not vindictive. I draw the line at putting a 
man on the rack. If you want every joint in your body 
stretched until it’s an agony to live—until you have an 
unnatural feeling that all your museles are singing and 
laughing with pain—then go to the gymnasium with that 
lady. But youll be more comfortable in jail. 

Lina [greatly amused] Was that why you went away, 
old pal? Was that the telegram you said you had for- 
gotten to send? 

Mrs Tarleton comes in hastily through the inner door. 

Mrs Tarueton [on the steps] Is anything the matter, 
John? Nurse says she heard you ealling me a quarter of 
an hour ago; and that your voice sounded as if you were 
ill. [She eomes between Tarleton and the man.] Is anything 
the matter? 

TaRLETON. This is the son of an old friend of mine. 
Mr—er—Mr punner. [To the man, who rises awkwardly). 
My wife. 

Mrs He ron. Good evening to you. 

GuNNER. Er— [He is too nervous to speak, and makes a 
shambling bow}. 

Bentley looks in at the pavilion door, very peevish, and too 
preoceupied with his own affairs to pay any attention to those 
of the eompany. 

BrentTuey. I say: has anybody seen Hypatia? She 
promised to come out with me; and I eant find her any- 
where. And wheres Joey? 

GUNNER [suddenly breaking out aggressively, being inea- 
pable of any middle way between submissiveness and vio- 
lenee]| I ean tell you where Hypatia is. I ean tell you 
where Joey is. And I say it’s a seandaland aninfamy. If 


7A Misalliance 


people only knew what goes on in this so-called respectable 
house it would be put a stop to. These are the morals of our 
pious capitalist class! This is your rotten bourgeoisie! 
This! — 

Mrs Tarueton. Dont you dare use such language in 
company. I wont allow it. 

Tarueton. All right, Chickabiddy: it’s not bad lan- 
guage: it’s only Socialism. 

Mrs Taruretron. Well, I wont have any Socialism in my 
house. 

TaRLETON [to Gunner] You hear what Mrs Tarleton 
says. Well, in this house everybody does what she says 
or out they go. 

GUNNER. Do you suppose I want tostay? Do you think 
I would breathe this polluted atmosphere a moment longer 
than I could help? 

BENTLEY [running forward between Lina and Gunner] But 
what did you mean by what you said about Miss Tarleton 
and Mr Percival, you beastly rotter, you? 

GUNNER [to Tarleton] Oh! is Hypatia your daughter? 
And Joey is Mister Percival, is he? One of your 
set, I suppose. One of the smart set! One of the 
bridge-playing, eighty-horse-power, week-ender set! One 
of the johnnies I slave for! Well, Joey has more de- 
cency than your daughter, anyhow. The women are 
the worst. I never believed it til [ saw it with my 
own eyes. Well, it wont last for ever. The writing is 
on the wall. Rome fell. Babylon fell. Hindhead’s turn 
will come. 

Mrs Tarueron [naively looking at the wall for the writing] 
Whatever arc you talking about, young man? 

Gunner. I know what I’m talking about. I went into 
that Turkish bath a boy: I came out a man. 

Mrs Tar.Leton. Good gracious! hes mad. [To Lina] 
Did John make him take a Turkish bath? 

Lina. No. He docsnt need Turkish baths: he needs to 


Misalliance 15 


put on a little flesh. I dont understand what it’s all about. 
I found him trying to shoot Mr Tarleton. 

Mrs TarueTon [with a scream] Oh! and John encourag- 
ing him, I'll be bound! Bunny: you go for the police. [To 
Gunner| Vl teach you to come into my house and shoot 
my husband. 

GUNNER. Teachaway. I never asked to be let off. I’m 
ashamed to be free instead of taking my part with the 
rest. Women—beautiful women of noble birth—are going 
to prison for their opinions. Girl students in Russia go 
to the gallows; let themselves be cut in pieces with the 
knout, or driven through the frozen snows of Siberia, 
sooner than stand looking on tamely at the world being 
made a hell for the toiling millions. If you were not all 
skunks and cowards youd be suffering with them instead 
of battening here on the plunder of the poor. 

Mrs Tarueton [much vexed] Oh, did you ever hear 
such silly nonsense? Bunny: go and tell the gardener to 
send over one of his men to Grayshott for the police. 

Gunner. [ll go with him. I intend to give myself up. 
I’m going to expose what Ive seen here, no matter what 
the consequences may be to my miserable self. 

TARLETON. Stop. You stay where you are, Ben. Chick- 
abiddy: youve never had the police in. If you had, youd not 
be ina hurry to have them in again. Now, young man: cut 
the cackle; and tell us, as short as you can, what did you see? 

GuNNER. I cant tell you in the presence of ladies. 

Mrs Tarueton Oh, vou are tiresome. As if it mat- 
tered to anyone what you saw. Me! A married woman 
that might be your mother. [Zo Lina] And I’m sure 
youre not particular, if youll excuse my saying so. 

TARLETON. Out with it. What did you see? 

GuNNER. I saw your daughter with my own eyes—oh 
well, never mind what I saw. 

BENTLEY [almost crying with anriety| You beastly rotter, 
Ill get Joey to give you such a hiding— 


16 Misalliance 


TARLETON. You cant leave it at that, you know. What 
did you see my daughter doing? 

GuNnNER. After all, why shouldnt she do it? The 
Russian students do it. Women should be as free as 
men. I’m a fool. Dm so full of your bourgeois morality 
that I let myself be shocked by the application of my 
own revolutionary principles. If she likes the man why 
shouldnt she tell him so? 

Mrs Tarueton. I do wonder at you, John, Jetting him 
talk like this before everybody. [Turning rather tartly to 
Lina] Would you mind going away to the drawing-room 
just for a few minutes, Miss Chipenoska. This is a private 
family matter, if you dont mind. 

Lina. I should have gone before, Mrs Tarleton, if there 
had been anyone to protect Mr Tarleton and the young 
gentleman. 

TARLETON. Youre quite right, Miss Lina: you must 
stand by. I could have tackled him this morning; but 
since you put me through those exercises I'd rather die 
than even shake hands with a man, much less fight him. 

GUNNER. It’s all of a piece here. The men effeminate, 
the women unsexed— 

TarLeton. Dont begin again, old chap. Keep it for 
Trafalgar Square. 

Hypatra’s Voice OutsipE. No, no. [She breaks off in a 
stifled half laugh, half scream, and is scen darting across the 
garden with Percival in hot pursuit. Immediately afterwards 
she appears again, and runs into the pavilion. Finding it 
full of people, including a stranger, she stops; but Percival, 
flushed and reckless, rushes in and seizes her before he, too, 
realizes that they are not alone. He releascs her in confusion]. 

Dead silence. They are all afraid to look at one another 
except Mrs Tarleton, who stares sternly at Hypatia. Hy- 
patia ?s the first to recover her presence of mind. 

Hypatia. Excuse me rushing in like this. Mr Percival 
has been chasing me down the hill. 


Misalliance 17 


GuNNER. Who chased him up it? Dont be ashamed. 
Be fearless. Be truthful. 

TARLETON. Gunner: will you go to Paris for a fort- 
night? Ill pay your expenses. 

Hypatra. What do you mean? 

GUNNER. There was a silent witness in the Turkish 
bath. 

TARLETON. I found him hiding there. Whatever went 
on here, he saw and heard. Thats what he means. 

PERCIVAL [sternly approaching Gunner, and speaking with 
deep but contained tndignation| Am I to understand you as 
daring to put forward the monstrous and blackguardly lie 
that this lady behaved improperly in my presence? 

GUNNER [turning white] You know what I saw and 
heard. 

Hypatia, with a gleam of triumph in her eyes, slips novise- 
lessly into the swing chair, and watches Percival and Gunner, 
swinging slightly, but otherwise motionless. 

Prercivan. I hope it is not necessary for me to assure 
you all that there is not one word of truth—not one grain 
of substance—in this rascally ealumny, which no man with 
a spark of decent feeling would have uttered even if he 
had been ignorant enough to believe it. Miss Tarleton’s 
conduct, since I have had the honor of knowing her, has 
been, I need hardly say, in every respect beyond reproach. 
[To Gunner] As for you, sir, youll have the goodness to 
come out with me immediately. I have some business 
with you which cant be settled in Mrs Tarleton’s presence 
or in her house. 

GUNNER [painfully frightened] Why should I go out 
with you? 

PercivaAL. Because I intend that you shall. 

GUNNER. I wont be bullied by vou. [Percival makes a 
threatening step towards him]. Poliee! [He tries to bolt; but 
Pereival seizes him]. Leave me go, will you? What right 
have you to lay hands on me? 


78 Misalhiance 


TARLETON. Let him run for it, Mr Percival. Hes very 
poor company. We shall be well rid of him. Let him 
go. 

PercivaL. Not until he has taken back and made the 
fullest apology for the abominable lie he has told. He shall 
do that or he shall defend himself as best he can against the 
most thorough thrashing I’m capable of giving him. [Re- 
leasing Gunner, but facing him On Take your choice. 
Which is it to be? 

GUNNER. Give me a fair chaveel Go and stick at a 
desk from nine to six for a month, and let me have your 
grub and your sport and your lessons in boxing, and [Jk 
fight you fast enough. You know I’m no good or you 
darent bully me like this. 

PercivaAL. You should have thought of that before you 
attacked a lady with a dastardly slander. I’m waiting for 
your decision. I’m rather in a hurry, please. 

GUNNER. I never said anything against the lady. 


Mrs TARLETON Oh, listen to that! 
BENTLEY What a liar! 
Hyeatia Oh! 

TARLETON Oh, come! 


Prercivau. We'll have it in writing, if you dont mind. 
[Pointing to the writing table] Sit down; and take that pen 
in your hand. [Gunner looks irresolutely a little way round; 
then obeys]. Now write. “I, whatever your name is— 

GUNNER [after a vain attempt] Teant. My hand’s shak- 
ing too much. You see it’s no use. [’m doing my best. 
fT cant. 

PercivaL. Mr Summerhays will write it: you can 
sign it. 

BENTLEY [insolently to Gunner] Get up. [Gunner obeys; 
and Bentley, shouldering him aside towards, Percival, takes 
his place and prepares to write]. 

Prercivat. Whats your name? 

GUNNER. John Brown. 


Misalliance 79 


TarLETon. Oh come! Couldnt you make it Horace 
Smith? or Algernon Robinson? 

GUNNER [agitatedly| But my name is John Brown. 
There are real'y John Browns. How can I help it if my 
name’s a common one? 

BENTLEY. Shew us a letter addressed to you. 

GuNNER. How ean I? I never get any letters: I’m only 
a elerk. I can shew you J. B. on my handkerchief. [He 
takes out a not very clean onel. 

BENTLEY [with disgust] Oh, put it up again. Let it go at 
John Brown. 

PERcIVAL. Where do you live? 

GUNNER. 4 Chesterfield Parade, Kentish Town, 
N.W. 

PrrciIvaL [dictating] I, John Brown, of 4 Chesterfield 
Parade, Kentish Town, do hereby voluntarily confess that 
on the 3lst May 1909 I— [To Tarleton] What did he do 
exaetly? 

TARLETON [dictating]—I trespassed on the land of John 
Tarleton at Hindhead, and effeeted an unlawful entry into 
his house, where I seereted myself in a portable Turkish 
bath— 

BENTLEY. Go slow, old man. Just a moment. ‘‘Turk- 
ish bath’’—yes? 

TarRLETON [continuing]|—with a pistol, with whieh I 
threatened to take the life of the said John Tarleton— 

Mrs Taruteton. Oh, John! You might have been 
killed. 

TARLETON. —and was prevented from doing so only by 
the timely arrival of the celebrated Miss Lina Szezepa- 
nowska. 

Mrs Tarueton. Is she celebrated? [A pologctically] I 
never dreamt— 

BentTLey. Look here: I’m awfully sorry; but I eant 
spell Szezepanowska. 

Prercivau. I think it’s S, z, e, z— [Lina gives him her 


80 Misalliance 


visiting-card]. Thank you. [He throws it on Bentley’s 
blotter]. 

BentLEy. Thanks awfully. [He writes the name]. 

TARLETON [fo Percival| Now it’s your turn. 

Perciva. [dictating] I further confess that I was guilty 
of uttering an abominable calumny concerning Miss 
Hypatia Tarleton, for which! there was not a shred of 
foundation. 

Impressive silence whilst Bentley writes. 

BENTLEY. ‘* foundation’’? 

PercivaL. I apologize most humbly to the lady and her 
family for my conduct—|he waits for Bentley to write). 

BENTLEY. “‘conduct’’? 

PercivaL. —and I promise Mr Tarleton not to repeat 
it, and to amend my life— 

BENTLEY. “‘amend my life’’? 

PeRcIvAL. —and to do what in me lies to prove worthy 
of his kindness in giving me another chance— 

BEenTLEY. “‘another chance’’? 

PercivaAL. —and refraining from delivering me up to 
the punishment [ so richly deserve. 

BentLey. “‘richly deserve.” 

PercivaL. [to Hypatia] Does that satisfy you, Miss 
Tarleton? 

Hypatia. Yes: that will teach him to tell lies next time. 

BENTLEY [rising to make place for Gunner and handing 
him the pen} You mean it will teach him to tell the truth 
next time. 

TarRLeEtToN. Ahem! Do you, Patsy? 

Percivab. Be good enough to sign. [Gunner sits down 
helplessly and dips the penin the ink]. I hope what you are 
signing is no mere form of words to you, and that you not 
only say you are sorry, but that you are sorry. 

Lord Summerhays and Johnny come in through the pavil- 
ton door. 

Mrs Tar.Leton. Stop. Mr Percival: I think, on Hy- 


Misalliance Sl 


patia’s account, Lord Summerhays ought to be told 
about this. 

Lord Summerhays, wondering what the matter is, comes 
forward between Percival and Lina. Johnny stops beside 
Hypatia. 

PERCIVAL. Certainly. 

Tar ETON [uneasily] Take my advice, and cut it short. 
Get rid of him. 

Mrs Tarueton. Hypatia ought to have her character 
cleared. 

TARLETON. You let well alone, Chickabiddy. Most of 
our characters will bear a little careful dusting; but they 
wont bear scouring. Patsy is jolly well out of it. What 
does it matter, anyhow? 

PercivaL. Mr Tarleton: we have already said either 
too much or not enough. Lord Summerhays: will you be 
kind enough to witness the declaration this man has just 
signed? 

GuNNER. I havnt yet. Am I to sign now? 

Percitvau. Of course. [Gunner, who is now incapable of 
doing anything on his own initiative, signs]. Now stand up 
and read your declaration to this gentleman. [Gunner 
makes a vague movement and looks stupidly round. Percival 
adds peremptorily| Now, please. 

GUNNER [rising apprehensively and reading in a hardly 
audible voice, like a very sick man] I, John Brown, of 4+ 
Chesterfield Parade, Kentish Town, do hereby voluntarily 
confess that on the 3lst May 1909 I trespassed on the 
land of John Tarleton at Hindhead, and effected an unlaw- 
ful entry into his house, where I secreted myself in a 
portable Turkish bath, with a pistol, with which I threat- 
ened to take the life of the said John Tarleton, and was 
prevented from doing so only by the timely arrival of 
the celebrated Miss Lena Sh-Sh-sheepanossika. [I further 
confess that I was guilty of uttering an abominable cal- 
umny concerning Miss Hypatia Tarleton, for which there 


82 Misalhiance 


was not a shred of foundation. I apologize most humbly 
to the lady and her family for my conduct; and I promise 
Mr Tarleton not to repeat it, and to amend my Hie, and to 
do what in me lies to prove worthy of his kindness in 
giving me another chance and refraining from delivering 
me up to the punishment I so richly deserve. 

A short and painful silence follows. Then Percival speaks. 

PercivaL. Do you consider that sufficient, Lord Sum- 
merhays? 

Lorp SUMMERHAYsS. Oh quite, quite. 

PeRcIVAL [to Hypatia] Lord Summerhays would prob- 
ably like to hear you say that you are satisfied, Miss 
Tarleton. 

Hypatia [coming out of the swing, and advancing between 
Percival and Lord Summerhays| I must say that you have 
behaved like a perfect gentleman, Mr. Percival. 

PERCIVAL [first bowing to Hypatia, and then turning with 
cold contempt to Gunner, who is standing helpless) We need 
not trouble you any further. [Gunner turns vaguely 
towards the pavilion). 

JOHNNY [with less refined offensiveness, pointing to the 
pavilion| Thats your way. The gardener will shew you 
the shortest way into the road. Go the shortest way. 

GUNNER [oppressed and disconcerted, hardly knows how 
to get out of the room| Yes, sir. I— [He turns again, appeal- 
ing to Tarleton) Maynt I have my mother’s photographs 
back again? [Mrs Tarleton pricks up her ears). 

TaRLETON. Eh? What? Oh, the photographs! Yes, 
yes, yes: take them. [Gunner takes them from the table, 
and 1s creeping away, when Mrs Tarleton puts out her hand 
and stops him]. 

Mrs Tarteton. Whats this, John? What were you 
doing with his mother’s photographs? 

TaruLeToNn. Nothing, nothing. Never mind, Chicka- 
biddy: it’s all right. 

Mrs Tarueton [snatching the photographs from Gun- 


Misalliance 83 


ner’s twrresolute fingers, and recognizing them at a glance] 
Lucy Titmus! Oh John, John! 

TARLETON [grimly, to Gunner] Young man: youre a 
fool; but youve just put the hd on this job in a masterly 
manner. I knew you would. I told you all to let well alone. 
You wouldnt; and now you must take the consequences 
—or rather J must take them. 

Mrs Tar eTon [to Gunner] Are you Lucy’s son? 

GUNNER. Yes. 

Mrs Tarueton. And why didnt you come to me? I 
didnt turn my baek on your mother when she came to me 
in her trouble. Didnt you know that? 

GUNNER. No. She never talked to me about anything. 

TARLETON. How could she talk to her own son? Shy, 
Summerhays, shy. Parent and child. Shy. [//e sits down 
at the end of the writing table nearest the sideboard like a man 
resigned to anything that fate may have in store for him]. 

Mrs Tarvueton. Then how did you find out? 

GUNNER. From her papers after she died. 

Mrs TaR.ueETon [shocked] Is Lucy dead? And I never 
knew! [With an effusion of tenderness| And you here 
being treated like that, poor orphan, with nobody to take 
your part! Tear up that foolish paper, child; and sit 
down and make friends with me. 


JOHNNY Hallo, mother: this is all very well, you 
know— 

PERCIVAL ¢ } But may I point out, Mrs Tarleton, that— 

BENTLEY Do you mean that after what he said of— 

HyYpatIA Oh, look here, mamma: this is really— 


Mrs Tarueton. Will you please speak one at a time? 

Silence. 

PERcIvAL [in a very gentlemanly manner] Will you allow 
me to remind you, Mrs Tarleton, that this man has uttered 
a most serious and disgraceful falsehood concerning Miss 
Tarleton and myself? 

Mrs Tarveton. I dont believe a word of it. If the 


84 Misalhance 


poor lad was there in the Turkish bath, who has a better 
right to say what was going on here than he has? You 
ought to be ashamed of yourself, Patsy; and so ought 
you too, Mr Percival, for encouraging her. [Hypatia re- 
treats to the pavilion, and exchanges grimaces with Johnny, 
shamelessly enjoying Percival’s sudden reverse. They know 
their mother]. 

Percivat [gasping] Mrs Tarleton: I give you my word 
of honor— 

Mrs Tarueton. Oh, go along with you and your word 
of honor. Do you think Pma fool? I wonder you can look 
the lad in the face after bullying him and making him sign 
those wicked hes; and all the time you carrying on with 
my daughter before youd been half an hour in my house. 
Fie, for shame! 

PercivaL. Lord Summerhays: I appeal to you. Have 
I done the correct thing or not? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Youve done your best, Mr Perci- 
val. But the correct thing depends for its success on every- 
body playing the game very strictly. As a single-handed 
game, it’s impossible. 

BENTLEY [suddenly breaking out lamentably| Joey: have 
you taken Hypatia away from me? 

Lorp SUMMERHAYsS [severely] Bentley! Bentley! Con- 
trol vourself, sir. 

TARLETON. Come, Mr Percival! the shutters are up on 
the gentlemanly business. Try the truth. 

PercivaL. I am in a wretched position. If I tell the 
truth nobody will believe me. 

TARLETON. Oh yes they will. The truth makes every- 
body believe it. | 

PercivaL. It also makes everybody pretend not to 
believe it. Mrs Tarleton: youre not playing the 
game. 

Mrs Tarueton. I dont think youve behaved at all 
nicely, Mr Percival. 


Misalliance 85 


BentLey. I wouldnt have played you such a dirty 
trick, Joey. [Struggling with a sob] You beast. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Bentley: you must control your- 
self. Let me say at the same time, Mr Percival, that my 
son seems to have been mistaken in regarding you either as 
his friend or as a gentleman. 

PercitvaL. Miss Tarleton: [’m suffering this for your 
sake. I ask you just to say that Iam not to blame. Just 
that and nothing more. 

Hypatia {gloating mischievously over his distress| You 
chased me through the heather and kissed me. You 
shouldnt have done that if you were not in earnest. 

PercivaL. Oh, this is really the limit. [Turning des- 
perately to Gunner] Sir: Tappeal toyou. Asa gentleman! 
as a man of honor! as a man bound to stand by another 
man! You were in that Turkish bath. You saw how it 
began. Could any man have behaved more correetly than 
I did? Is there a shadow of foundation for the accusations 
brought against me? 

GUNNER [sorely perplexed] Well, what do you want me 
to say? 

JOHNNY. He has said what he had to say already, hasnt 
he? Read that paper. 

GUNNER. When I tell the truth, you make me go back 
on it. And now you want me to go back on myself! What 
is a man to do? 

Percrvau [patiently| Please try to get your mind clear, 
Mr Brown. [ pointed out to you that you could not, as a 
gentleman, disparage a lady’s character. You agree with 
me, I hope. 

GUNNER. Yes: that sounds all right. 

PercivaL. But youre also bound to tell the truth. 
Surely youll not deny that. 

GuNNER. Who’s denying it? I say nothing against 
it: 

PercivaL. Of course not. Well, I ask you to tell the 


86 Misalliance 


truth simply and unaffectedly. Did you witness any im- 
proper conduct on my part when you were in the bath? 

GUNNER. No, sir. 

JOHNNY ) ( Then what do you mean by saying that— 

HYPaTIA | Do you mean to say that I— 

BENTLEY Oh, you area rotter. Youre afraid— 

TARLETON [rising] Stop. [Silence]. Leave it at that. 
Enough said. You keep quiet, Johnny. Mr Percival: 
youre whitewashed. So are you, Patsy. Honors are easy. 
Lets drop the subject. The next thing to do is to open a 
subscription to start this young man on a ranch in some 
far country thats accustomed to be in a disturbed state. 
He— 

Mrs Tar.teton. Now stop joking the poor lad, John: 
I wont haveit. Hes been worried to death between you all. 
[To Gunner| Have you had your tea? 

GUNNER. Tea? No: it’stooearly. I’m all right; only 
IT had no dinner: I didnt think I'd want it. I didnt think 
I'd be alive. 

Mrs Tarteton. Oh, whatathing tosay! You mustnt 
talk like that. 

JOHNNY. Hes out of his mind. He thinks it’s past 
dinner-time. 

Mrs TarLeton. Oh, youve no sense, Johnny. He calls 
his lunch his dinner, and has his tea at half-past six. 
Havnt you, dear? 

GUNNER [timidly| Hasnt everybody? 

JOHNNY [laughing] Well, by George, thats not bad. 

Mrs TarLeton. Now dont be rude, Johnny: you know 
I dont like it. [To Gunner] A cup of tea will pick you 
up. 

GUNNER. [I'd rather not. I’m all right. 

TARLETON [going to the sideboard] Here! try a mouthful 
of sloe gin. 

GUNNER. No, thanks. I’m a teetotaler. I cant touch 
alcohol in any form. 


Misalliance 87 


TARLETON. Nonsense! This isnt aleohol. Sloe gin. 
Vegetarian, you know. 

GuNNER [hesitating] Is it a fruit beverage? 

TARLETON. Of course it is. Fruit beverage. Here you 
are. [He gives him a glass of sloe gin]. 

GUNNER [going to the sideboard] Thanks. [ile begins to 
drink it confidently; but the first mouthful startles and almost 
chokes him]. It’s rather hot. 

TARLETON. Do you good. Dont be afraid of it. 

Mrs TARLETON [going to him] Sip it, dear. Dont be in 
a hurry. 

Gunner sips slowly, each stp making his eyes water. 

JOHNNY [eoming forward into the place left vacant by Gun- 
ner’s visit to the sideboard] Well, now that the gentleman 
has been attended to, I should like to know where we are. 
It may be a vulgar business habit; but I confess I like to 
know where I am. 

TARLETON. Idont. Wherever you are, youre there any- 
how. I tell you again, leave it at that. 

Bentuey. I want to know too. Hypatia’s engaged to 
me. 

Hypatra. Bentley: if you insult me again—if you say 
another word, I'll leave the house and not enter it until 
vou leave it. 

JouNNY. Put that in your pipe and smoke it, my 
boy. 

BENTLEY [?narticulate with fury and suppressed tears] 
Oh! Beasts! Brutes! 

Mrs Tarueton. Now dont hurt his feelings, poor httle 
lamb! 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS [very sternly] Bentley: you are not 
behaving well. You had better leave us until you have 
recovered yourself. 

Bentley goes out in disgrace, but gets no further than half 
way to the pavilion door, when, with a wild sob, he throws 
himself on the floor and begins to yell. 


88 Misalliance 


Mrs TARLETON [running to him] Oh, poor child, 
poor child! Dont ery, duckie: 
he didnt mean it: dont cry. 


Lorp SUMMER- Stop that infernal noise, sir: do you 
HAYS hear? Stop it instantly. 
JOHNNY Thats the game he tried on me. 


There you are! Now, mother! 
Now, Patsy! You see for your- 


selves. 

HlypATIA [covering her ears] Oh you little 
wretch! Stop him, Mr Percival. 
Kick him. 

TARLETON Steady on, steady on. Easy, Bunny, 
easy. 


Lina. Leave him to me, Mrs Tarleton. Stand clear, 
please. 

She kneels opposite Bentley; quickly lifts the upper half of 
him from the ground; dwes under him; rises with his body 
hanging across her shoulders; and runs out with him. 

BENTLEY [27 scared, sobered, humble tones as he is borne 
off} What are you doing? Let me down. Please, Miss 
Szczepanowska—|they pass out of hearing]. 

An awestruck silence falls on the company as they speculate 
on Bentley’s fate. 

JOHNNY. I wonder what shes going to do with him. 

Hypatra. Spank him, I hope. Spank him hard. 

Lorp SummMeErRnHAYs. I hope so. I hope so. Tarleton: 
I’m beyond measure humiliated and annoyed by my son’s 
behavior in your house. I had better take him home. 

TarLetTon. Not at all: not at all. Now, Chickabiddy: 
as Miss Lina has taken away Ben, suppose you take away 
Mr Brown for a while 

GUNNER [with unexpected aggressiveness] My name isnt 
Brown. [They stare at him: he meets their stare defiantly, 
pugnacious with sloe gin; drains the last drop from his glass; 
throws wt on the sideboard; and advances to the writing table}. 


Misalliance 89 


My name’s Baker: Julius Baker. Mister Baker. If any 
man doubts it, I’m ready for him. 

Mrs Tarveton. John: you shouldnt have given him 
that sloe gin. It’s gone to his head. 

GUNNER. Dont you think it. Fruit beverages dont go 
to the head; and what matter if they did? I say nothing 
to you, maam: [ regard you with respect and affection. 
[Lachrymosely| You were very good to my mother: my 
poor mother! [Relapsing into his daring mood| But I say 
my name’s Baker; and I’m not to be treated as a child or 
made aslave of by any man. Bakeris my name. Did you 
think I was going to give you my real name? Not likely. 
Not me. 

TARLETON. So you thought of John Brown. That was 
clever of you. 

GUNNER. Clever! Yes: we’re not all such fools as you 
think: we clerks. It was the bookkeeper put me up to 
that. It’s the only name that nobody gives as a false name, 
he said. Clever, eh? I should think so. 

Mrs TarLeton. Come now, Julius— 

GUNNER [reassuring her gravely] Dont you be alarmed, 
maam. I know what is due to you as a lady and to myself 
as a gentleman. I regard vou with respect and affection. 
If you had been my mother, as you ought to have been, I 
should have had more chanee. But you shall have no 
cause to be ashamed of me. The strength of a chain ts no 
greater than its weakest link; but the greatness of a poet 
is the greatness of his greatest moment. Shakespear used 
to get drunk. Frederick the Great ran away from a battle. 
But it was what they could rise to, not what they could 
sink to, that made them great. They werent good always; 
but they were good on their day. Well, on my day—on my 
day, mind you—I’m good for something too. I know that 
Ive made a silly exhibition of myself here. I know I didnt 
rise to the oceasion. I know that if youd been my mother, 
voud have been ashamed of me. I lost my presence of 





90 Misalliance 


mind: I wasacontemptible coward. But [slapping himself 
on the chest] I'm not the man I was then. This is my day. 
Ive seen the tenth possessor of a foolish face carried out 
kicking and screaming by a woman. [To Percival] You 
crowed pretty big over me. You hypnotized me. But 
when you were put through the fire yourself, you were 
found wanting. I tell you straight I dont give a damn 
for you. 

Mrs Tarieton. No: thats naughty. You shouldnt 
say that before me. 

GUNNER. I would cut my tongue out sooner than say 
anything vulgar in your presence; for I regard you with 
respect and affection. I was not swearing. I was affirm- 
ing my manhood. 

Mrs Tarvteton. What an idea! What puts all these 
things into your head? 

GuNNER. Oh, dent you think, because I’m a clerk, 
that I’m not one of the intellectuals. I'ma reading man, a 
thinking man. I read in a book—a high class six shilling 
book—this precept: Affirm vour manhood. It appealed to 
me. Ive always remembered it. I believe init. I feel I 
must do it to recover your respect after my cowardly 
behavior. Therefore I affirm it in your presence. I tell 
that man who insulted me that I dont give a damn for 
him, And neither I do. 

TARLETON. I say, Summerhays: did you have chaps of 
this sort in Jinghiskahn? 

Lorp SummMErRHAYS. Oh yes: they exist everywhere: 
they are a most serious modern problem. 

GUNNER. Yes. Youre right. [Conceitedly] I'm a prob- 
lem. And I tell you that when we clerks realize that we’re 
problems! well, look out: thats all. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS [suavely, to Gunner] You read a great 
deal, you say? 

GuNNER. Ive read more than any man in this room, if 
the truth were known, I expect. Thats whats going to 


Misalliance 9] 


smash up your Capitalism. The problems are beginning to 
read. Ha! We're free to do that here in England. What 
would you do with me in Jinghiskahn if you had me 
there? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Well, since you ask me so directly, 
Til tell you. I should take advantage of the fact that you 
have neither sense enongh nor strength enough to know 
how to behave yourself in a difficulty of any sort. I shonld 
warn an intelligent and ambitious policeman that you are 
a troublesome person. The mtelligent and ambitious po- 
liceman would take an early opportunity of upsetting your 
temper by ordering you to move on, and treading on vour 
heels until you were provoked into obstrueting an officer 
in the discharge of his duty. Any trifle of that sort would 
be sufficient to make a man like you lose your self-pos- 
session and put yourself in the wrong. You would then 
be eharged and imprisoned until things quieted down. 

GuNNER. And you eall that justice! 

Lorp SummMertAys. No. Justice was not my business. 
I had to govern a province; and I took the neeessary steps 
to maintain order in it. Men are not governed by justice, 
but by law or persuasion. When they refuse to be gov- 
erned by law or persuasion, they have to be governed by 
force or fraud, or both. I used both when law and persua- 
sion failed me. Every ruler of men since the world began 
has done so, even when he has hated both fraud and force 
as heartily asI do. It is as well that yon should know this, 
my young friend; so that you may reeognize in time that 
anarchism is a game at which the police ean beat you. 
What have you to say to that? 

GuNnNneER. What have I to say to it! Well, I call it 
scandalous: thats what I have to say to it. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Precisely: thats all anybody has to 
say to it, except the British publie, whieh pretends not to 
believe it. And now let me ask you a sympathetie per- 
sonal question. Havynt you a headache? 


92 Misalliance 


GuNNER. Well, since you ask me, I have. Ive over- 
excited myself. 

Mrs Tarueton. Poor lad! No wonder, after all youve 
gone through! You want to eat a little and to lie down. 
You come with me. I want you to tell me about your poor 
dear mother and about yourself. Come along with me. 
[She leads the way to the tuner door}. 

GUNNER [following her obediently] Thank you kindly, 
madam. [She goes out. Before passing out after her, he 
partly closes the door and stops on the landing for a moment 
to say] Mind: I’m not knuckling down to any man here. 
I knuckle down to Mrs Tarleton because shes a woman in 
a thousand. I affirm my manhood all the same. Under- 
stand: I dont give a damn for the lot of you. {He hurries 
out, rather afraid of the consequences of this defiance, which 
has provoked Johnny to an impatient movement towards 
him}. 

Hypatia. Thank goodness hes gone! Oh, whata bore! 
WHAT a bore!!! Talk, talk, talk! 

TARLETON. Patsy: it’s no good. We’re going to talk. 
And we're going to talk about you. 

JOHNNY. It’s no use shirking it, Pat. We'd better know 
where we are. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Come, Miss Tarleton. Wont you 
sit down? I’m very tired of standing. [Hypatia comes 
from the pavilion and takes a chair at the worktable. Lord 
Summerhays takes the opposite chair, on her right. Percival 
takes the chair Johnny placed for Lina on her arrival. Tarle- 
ton sits down at the end of the writing table. Johnny remains 
standing. Lord Summerhays continues, with a sigh of relief 
at being seated.| We shall now get the change of subject 
we are all pining for. 

JOHNNY [puzzled| Whats that? 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. The great question. The question 
that men and women will spend hours over without 
complaining. The question that occupies all the novel 


Misalliance © 93 


readers and all the playgoers. The question they never 
get tired of. 

JOHNNY. But what question? 

Lorp SumMERHAYS. The question which particular 
young man some young woman will mate with. 

Percivau. As if it mattered! 

Hypatia [sharply| Whats that you said? 

Percivau. I said: As if it mattered. 

Hypatia. I call that ungentlemanly. 

PercivaAu. Do you care about that? you whio are so 
magnificently unladylike! 

JOHNNY. Look here, Mr Percival: youre not supposed 
to insult my sister. 

Hypatia. Oh, shut up, Johnny. I can take care of my- 
self. Dont you interfere. 

JOHNNY. Oh, very well. If you choose to give yourself 
away like that—to allow a man to call you unladylike an: 
then to be unladylike, Ive nothing more to say. 

Hypatra. I think Mr Pereival is most ungentlemanly; 
but I wont be protected. Vl not have my affairs inter- 
fered with by men on pretence of protecting me. I’m not 
vour baby. If lL interfered between you and a woman, you 
would soon tell me to mind my own business. 

TARLETON. Children: dont squabble. Read Dr Watts. 
Behave yourselves. 

JOHNNY. Ive nothing more to say; and as I dont seem 
to be wanted here, I shall take myself off. [He goes out with 
affected calm through the pavilion}. 

TARLETON. Summerhays: a family is an awful thing, 
au impossible thing. Catand dog. Patsy: I’m ashamed of 
you. 

Hypatia. Dll make it up with Johnny afterwards; but 
I really cant have him here sticking his clumsy hoof into 
my affairs. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. The question is, Mr Percival, are 
you really a gentleman, or are you not? 


94 Misalliance 


PERcIvAL. Was Napoleon really a gentleman or was he 
not? He made the lady get out of the way of the porter 
and said, “‘Respect the burden, madam.’ That was be- 
having like a very fine gentleman; but he kicked Volney 
for saying that what France wanted was the Bourbons 
back again. That was behaving rather ikea navvy. Now 
I, like Napoleon, am not all one piece. On occasion, as 
you have all seen, I can behave hke a gentleman. On 
occasion, I can behave with a brutal simplicity which Miss 
Tarleton herself could hardly surpass. 

TARLETON. Gentleman or no gentleman, Patsy: what 
are your intentions? 

Hypatira. My intentions! Surely it’s the gentleman 
who should be asked his intentions. 

TARLETON. Come now, Patsy! none of that nonsense. 
Has Mr Percival said anything to you that I ought to know 
or that Bentley ought to know? Have you said anything 
to Mr Percival? 

Hypatira. Mr Percival chased me through the heather 
and kissed me. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Asa gentleman, Mr Percival, what 
do you say to that? 

PrrcivaL. Asa gentleman, I do not kiss and tell. Asa 
mere man: a mere cad, if you like, I say that I did so at 
Miss Tarleton’s own suggestion. 

Hyeatia. Beast! 

PercivaL. I dont deny that I enjoyedit. Buti did not 
initiate it. And I began by running away. 

TARLETON. So Patsy can run faster than you, can she? 

PrErcivaL. Yes, when she is in pursuit of me. She runs 
faster and faster. I run slower and slower. And these 
woods of yours are full of magic. There was a confounded 
fern owl. Did you ever hear the churr of a fern owl? Did 
vou ever hear it create a sudden silence by ceasing? Did 
you ever hear it call its mate by striking its wings together 
twice and whistling that single note than no nightingale 


Misalliance 95 


can imitate? That is what happened in the woods when 
I was running away. So I turned; and the pursuer be- 
came the pursued. 

Hypatia. I had to fight like a wild cat. 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. Please dont tell us this. It’s not 
fit for old people to hear. 

TARLETON. Come: how did it end? 

Hiypatia. It’s not ended yet. 

TARLETON. How is it going to end? 

Hypatia. Ask him. 

TARLETON. How is it going to end, Mr Percival? 

Percivau. I cant.,afford to marry, Mr Tarleton. Ive 
only a thousand a year until my father dies. Two people 
cant possibly live on that. 

TARLETON. Oh, cant they? When J married, I should 
have been jolly glad to have felt sure of the quarter of it. 

Prercivat. No doubt; but Iam not a cheap person, Mr 
Tarleton. I was brought up in a household which cost at 
least seven or eight times that; and I am in constant 
money difficulties because I simply dont know how to hve 
on the thousand a year scale. As to ask a woman to share 
my degrading poverty, it’s out of the question. Besides, 
I’m rather young to marry. I’m only 28. 

Hypatia. Papa: buy the brute for me. 

Lorp SUMMERUAYS [shrinking] My dear Miss Tarleton: 
dont be so naughty. I know how delightful it is to shoek 
an old man; but there is a point at which it becomes 
barbarous. Dont. Please dont. 

Hypatia. Shall I tell Papa about you? 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. Tarleton: I had better tell you 
that I onee asked your daughter to become my widow. 

TARLETON [to Hypatia}| Why didnt you aceept him, you 
young idiot? 

Lorp SUMMERHAYS. I was too old. 

Tarteton. All this has been going on under my nose, I 
suppose. You run after young men; and old men run 


96 Misalliance 


after you. And I’m the last person in the world to hear 
of it. 

Hypatia. How could I tell you? 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Parents and children, Tarleton. 

TARLETON. Oh, the gulf that lies between them! the 
impassable, eternal gulf! And so I’m to buy the brute for 
you, eh? 

Hypatra. If you please, papa. 

TARLETON. Whats the price, Mr Percival? 

PercivaL. We might do with another fifteen hun- 
dred if my father would contribute. But I should like 
more. 

TARLETON. It’s purely a question of money with you, 
is it? 

PERcIVAL [after a moment’s consideration] Practically 
yes: it turns on that. 

TARLETON. I thought you might have some sort of 
preference for Patsy, you know. 

PercivaL. Well, but does that matter, do you think? 
Patsy fascinates me, no doubt. I apparently fascinate 
Patsy. But, believe me, all that is not worth considering. 
One of my three fathers (the priest) has married hundreds 
of couples: couples selected by one another, couples se- 
lected by the parents, couples forced to marry one another 
by circumstances of one kind or another; and he assures 
me that if marriages were made by putting all the men’s. 
names into one sack and the women’s names into another, 
and having them taken out by a blindfolded child like lot- 
tery numbers, there would be just as high a percentage of 
happy marriages as we have here in England. He said 
Cupid was nothing but the blindfolded child: pretty idea 
that, I think! I shall have as good a chance with Patsy as 
with anyone else. Mind: I’m not bigoted about it. I’m 
not a doctrinaire: not the slave of a theory. You and Lord 
Summerhays are experienced married men. If you can 
tell me of any trustworthy method of selecting a wife, [ 


Misalliance 97 


shall be happy to make use of it. I await your sugges- 
tions. [He looks with polite attention to Lord Summerhays, 
who, having nothing to say, avoids his eye. He looks to 
Tarleton, who purses his lips glumly aud rattles his money 
in his pockets without a word]. Apparently neither of you 
has anything to suggest. Then Patsy will do as well as 
another, provided the money is forthcoming. 

Hypatia. Oh, you beauty, you beauty! 

TaR.LETON. When I married Patsy’s mother, I was in 
love with her. 

PrerRcivau. For the first time? 

TarLetTon. Yes: for the first time. 

PerRcivau. For the last time? 

Lorp SumMmeErRnuays [revolted] Sir: you are in the pres- 
ence of his daughter. 

Hypatia. Oh, dont mind me. I dont care. I’m accus- 
tomed to Papa’s adventures. 

TARLETON [blushing painfully] Patsy, my child: that was 
not—not delicate. 

Hypatia. Well, papa, youve never shewn any delicacy 
in talking to me about my conduct; and I really dont see 
why I shouldnt talk to you about yours. It’s such non- 
sense! Do you think young people dont know? 

Lorp SumMeEruAys. I’m sure they dont feel. Tarleton: 
this is too horrible, too brutal. If neither of these young 
people have any—any—any— 

Prercivau. Shall we say paternal sentimentality? I'm 
extremely sorry to shock you; but you must remember 
that Ive been educated to discuss human affairs with three 
fathers simultaneously. I’m an adult person. Patsy is an 
adult person. You do not inspire me with veneration. 
Apparently you do not inspire Patsy with veneration. 
That may surprise you. It may pain you. I’m sorry. It 
cant be helped. What about the money? 

TaRLETON. You dont inspire me with gencrosity, 
young man. 


98 Misalliance 


Hypatta [laughing with genuine amusement] He had you 
there, Joey. 

TARLETON. I havnt been a bad father to you, Patsy. 

Hypatra. I dont say you have, dear. If only I could 
persuade you Ive grown up, we should get along perfectly. 

TaRLETON. Do you remember Bill Burt? 

Hypatia. Why? 

TARLETON [to the others} Bill Burt was a laborer here. 
I was going to sack him for kicking his father. He said 
his father had kicked him until he was big enough to kick 
back. Patsy begged him off. I asked that man what it 
felt like the first time he kicked his father, and found that 
it was just like kicking any other man. He laughed and 
said that it was the old man that knew what it felt like. 
Think of that, Summerhays! think of that! 

Hypatia. I havnt kicked you, papa. 

TARLETON. Youve kicked me harder than Bill Burt ever 
kicked. 

Lorp SumMeErRuAYsS. It’s no use, Tarleton. Spare your- 
self. Do you seriously expect these young people, at their 
age, to sympathize with what this gentleman calls your 
paternal sentimentality? 

TARLETON [wistfully] Is it nothing to you but paternal 
sentimentality, Patsy? 

Hypatra. Well, I greatly prefer your superabundant 
vitahty, papa. 

TARLETON [violently| Hold your tongue, you young 
devil. The young are all alike: hard, coarse, shallow, 
cruel, selfish, dirty-minded. You can clear out of my house 
as soon as you can coax him to take you; and the sooner 
the better. [Zo Percival| I think you said your price was 
fifteen hundred a year. Take it. And I wish you joy of 
your bargain. 

Percivau. If you wish to know who I am— 

TARLETON. I dont care a tinker’s curse who you are 
or what you are. Youre willing to take that girl off my 


Misalliance 99 


hands for fifteen hundred a year: thats all that concerns 
me. Tell her who you are if you like: it’s her affair, not 
mine. 

Hypatia. Dont answer him, Joey: it wont last. Lord 
Summerhays, I’m sorry about Bentley; but Joey’s the only 
man for me. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYsS. It may 

Hypatrta. Please dont say it may break your poor boy's 
heart. It’s much more likely to break yours. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Oh! 

TARLETON [springing to his feet] Leave the room. Do 
you hear: leave the room. 

PercivaL. Arnt we getting a little cross? Dont be 
angry, Mr Tarleton. Read Marcus Aurelius. 

TARLETON. Dont you dare make fun of me. Take your 
aeroplane out of my vinery and yourself out of my house. 

Perciva. [rising, to Hypatia] I’m afraid I shall have to 
dine at the Beacon, Patsy. 

Ifypatia [rising] Do. I dine with you. 

TARLETON. Did you hear me tell you to leave the room? 

Hypatra. Idid. [To Pereival] You see what living with 
one’s parents means, Joey. It means living in a house 
where you can be ordered to leave the room. Ive got to 
obey: it’s his house, not mine. 

TarLeton. Who pays for it? Go and support yourself 
as I did if you want to be independent. 

Hypatia. I wanted to and you wouldnt let me. How 
can I support myself when I’m a prisoner? 

TARLETON. Hold your tongue. 

Hypatia. Keep your temper. 

Percivat [coming between them] Lord Summerhays: 
youll join me, I’m sure, in pointing out to both father and 
daughter that they have now reached that very common 
stage in family life at whieh anything but a blow would be 
an anti-climax. Do you seriously want to beat Patsy, 


Mr Tarleton? 





100 Misalliance 


TARLETON. Yes. I want to thrash the hfe out of her. 
If she doesnt get out of my reach, Pil do it. [He sits down 
and grasps the writing table to restrain himself]. 

Hypattra [coolly going to him and leaning with her breast 
on his writhing shoulders} Oh, if you want to beat me just 
to relieve your feelings—jJust really and truly for the fun of 
it and the satisfaction of it, beat away. I dont grudge you 
that. 

TARLETON [almost in hysterics] I used to think that this 
sort of thing went on in other families but that it never 
could happen in ours. And now— [fe 7s broken with 
emotion, and continues lamentably| I cant say the right 
thing. I cant dothe right thing. I dont know what is the 
right thing. I’m beaten; and she knows it. Summerhays: 
tell me what to do. 

Lerp SumMERHAYS. When my couneil in Jinghiskahn 
reached the point of coming to blows, I used to adjourn 
the sitting. Let us postpone the discussion. Wait until 
Monday: we shall have Sunday to quiet down in. Believe 
me, I’m not making fun of you; but I think theres some- 
thing in this young gentleman’s advice. Read something. 

TARLETON. I'll read King Lear. 

Hiypatia. Dont. DPm very sorry, dear. 

TARLETON. Youre not. Youre laughing at me. Serve 
me right! Parents and children! No man should know 
his own child. No child should know its own father. Let 
the family be rooted out of civilization! Let the human 
race be brought up in institutions! 

Hypatia. Ob yes. How jolly! You and I might be 
friends then; and Joey could stay to dinner. 

TARLETON. Let him stay to dinner. Let him stay to 
breakfast. Let him spend his life here. Dont you say I 
drove him out. Dont you say I drove you out. 

Percivau. I really have no right to inflict myself on 
you. Dropping in as I did— 

TARLETON. Out of the sky. Ha! Dropping in. The 


Misalliance 101 


new sport of aviation. You just see a nice house; drop 
in; scoop up the man’s daughter; and off with you again. 

Bentley comes back, with his shoulders hanging as if he too 
had been exercised to the last pitch of fatigue. He is very 
sad. They stare at him as he gropes to Pereival’s chair. 

BenTLey. I’m sorry for making a fool of myself. I beg 
your pardon. Hypatia: I’m awfully sorry; but Ive made 
up my mind that P’!! never marry. [He sits down in deep 
depression]. 

Hypatia [running to him] How nice of you, Bentley! 
Of course you guessed I wanted to marry Joey. What did 
the Polish lady do to you? 

BENTLEY [turning his head away] I’d rather not speak 
of her, if you dont mind. 

Hypatia. Youve fallen in love with her. [She laughs]. 

BENTLEY. It’s beastly of you to laugh. 

Lorp SuMMERHAYS. Youre not the first to fall today 
under the lash of that young lady’s terrible derision, 
Bentley. 

Lina, her cap on, and her goggles in her hand, comes im- 
petuously through the inner door. 

Lina [on the steps] Mr Pereival: can we get that aero- 
plane started again? [She comes down and runs to the 
pavilion door]. I must get out of this into the air: right up 
into the blue. 

Prercivau. Impossible. The frame’s twisted. The 
petrol has given out: thats what brought us down. And 
how can we get a clear run to start with among these 
woods? 

Lina [swooping back through the middle of the pavilion] 
We can straighten the frame. We can buy petrol at the 
Beacon. With a few laborers we can get her out on to 
the Portsmouth Road and start her along that. 

TARLETON [rising] But why do you want to leave us, 
Miss Szez? 

Lina. Old pal: this is a stuffy house. You seem to 


102 Misalliance 


think of nothing but making love. All the conversa- 
tion here is about love-making. All the pictures are about 
love-making. The eyes of all of you are sheep’s eyes. 
You are steeped in it, soaked in it: the very texts on the 
walls of your bedrooms are the ones about love. It is dis- 
gusting. Itis not healthy. Your women are kept idle and 
dressed up for no other purpose than to be made love to. 
I have not been here an hour; and already everybody 
makes love to me as if because I] am a woman it were my 
profession to be made love to. First you, old pal. I for- 
gave you because you were nice about yeur wife. 

Hypatia. Oh! oh! oh! Oh, papa! 

Lina. Then you, Lord Summerhays, come to me; and 
all you have to say is to ask me not to mention that you 
made love to me in Vienna two years ago. I forgave you 
because I thought you were an ambassador; and all am- 
bassadors make love and are very nice and useful to people 
who travel. Then this young gentleman. He is engaged 
to this young lady; but no matter for that: he makes love 
to me because I carry him off in my arms when he cries. 
All these I bore in silence. But now comes your Johnny 
and tells me I’m a ripping fine woman, and asks me to 


do not mind this boy: heis a child: he loves me: I should 
have to give him money and take care of him: that would 
be foolish, but honorable. I do not mind you, old pal: 
you are what you call an old—ouf! but you do not offer 
to buy me: you say until we are tired—until you are so 
happy that you dare not ask for more. That is foolish too, 
at your age; but it is an adventure: it is not dishonor-' 
able. Ido not mind Lord Summerhays: it was in Vienna: 
they had been toasting him at a great banquet: he was 
not sober. That is bad for the health; but it is not dishon- 
orable. But your Johnny! Oh, your Johnny! with his 
marriage. He will do the straight thing by me. He will 
give me a home, a position. He tells me I must know 


Misalliance 103 


that my present position is not one for a nice woman. 
This to me, Lina Szcezepanowska! I aman honest woman: 
I earn my living. I am a free woman: I live in my own 
house. I am a woman of the world: I have thousands of 
friends: every night crowds of people applaud me, delight 
in me, buy my picture, pay hard-earned money to see me. 
Iam strong: I am skilful: Iam brave: Iam independent: 
Tam unbought: I am ali that a woman ought to be; and 
in my family there has not been a single drunkard for four 
generations. And this Englishman! this linendraper! he 
dares to ask me to come and live with him in this rrrrrrrab- 
bit hutch, and take my bread from his hand, and ask him 
for pocket money, and wear soft clothes, and be his woman! 
his wife! Sooner than that, I would stoop to the lowest 
depths of my profession. I would stuff lions with food and 
pretend to tame them. I would deceive honest people’s 
eyes with conjuring tricks instead of real feats of strength 
and skill. I would be a clown and set bad examples of 
conduct to little children. I would sink yet lower and be 
an actress or an opera singer, imperilling my soul by the 
wicked lie of pretending to be somebody else. All this I 
would do sooner than take my bread from the hand of a 
man and make him the master of my body and soul. And 
so you may tell your Johnny to buy an Englishwoman: he 
shall not buy Lina Szezepanowska; and I will not stay 
in the house where such dishonor is offered me. Adieu. 
[She turns prectpitately to go, but ts faced in the pavilion 
doorway by Johnny, who comes in slowly, his hands in his 
pockets, meditating deeply]. 

JOHNNY [confidentially to Lina] You wont mention our 
little conversation, Miss Shepanoska. It’ll do no good; 
and I'd rather you didnt. 

TaRLeETON. Weve just heard about it, Johnny. 

JOHNNY [shortly, but without ill-tempcr| Oh: is that so? 

Hypatia. The cat’s out of the bag, Johnny, about 
everybody. They were all beforehand with you: papa, 


104 Misalliance 


Lord Summerhays, Bentley and all. Dont you let them 
laugh at you. 

JOHNNY [a grin slowly overspreading his countenance} 
Well, theres no use my pretending to be surprised at you, 
Governor, is there? I hope you got it as hot as I did. 
Mind, Miss Shepanoska: it wasnt lost on me. [ma 
thinking man. I kept my temper. Youll admit that. 

Lina [frankly] Oh yes. I donot quarrel. You are what 
is called a chump; but you are not a bad sort of chump. 

JOHNNY. Thank you. Well, if a chump may have an 
opinion, I should put it at this. You make, I suppose, ten 
pounds a night off your own bat, Miss Lina? 

Lina [scornfully| Ten pounds a night! I have made ten 
pounds a minute. 

JOHNNY [with increased respect] Have you indeed? I 
didnt know: youll excuse my mistake, I hope. But the 
principle is the same. Now I trust you wont be offended 
at what I’m going to say; but Ive thought about this and 
watched it in daily experience; and you may take it from 
me that the moment a woman becomes pecuniarily inde- 
pendent, she gets hold of the wrong end of the stick in 
moral questions. 

Lina. Indeed! And what do you conclude from that, 
Mister Johnny? 

JOHNNY. Well, obviously, that independence for women 
is wrong and shouldnt be allowed. For their own good, 
vou know. And for the good of morality in general. You 
agree with me, Lord Summerhays, dont you? 

Lorp SumMMeRHAYS. It’s a very moral moral, if I may so 
express myself. 

Mrs Tarleton comes in softly through the inner door. 

Mrs Tarueton. Dont make too much noise. The 
lad’s asleep. 

TARLETON. Chickabiddy: we have some news for you. 

JOHNNY [apprehensively| Now theres no need, you know, 
Governor, to worry mother with everything that passes. 


Misallianee 105 


Mrs TarLetTon [coming to Tarleton] Whats been going 
on? Dont you hold anything back from me, John. What 
have you been doing? 

TARLETON. Bentley isnt going to marry Patsy. 

Mrs TARLETON. Of course not. Is that your great news? 
I never believed she’d marry him. 

TarLeTon. Theres something else. Mr Percival here— 

Mrs Tarvueton [to Percival) Are you going to marry 
Patsy? 

PercivaL [diplomatically| Patsy is going to marry me, 
with your permission. 

Mrs Taruteton. Oh, she has my permission: she ought 
to have been married long ago. 

Hypatia. Mother! 

TARLETON. Miss Lina here, though she has been so 
short a time with us, has inspired a good deal of attach- 
ment in—I may say in almost all of us. Therefore I hope 
she'll stay to dinner, and not insist on flying away in that 
acroplane. 

PrercivaAL. You must stay, Miss Szezepanowska. I 
cant go up again this evening. 

Lina. Ive seen you work it. Do you think I require 
any help? And Bentley shall come ,with me as a 
passenger. 

BENTLEY [terrified] Go up in an aeroplane! I darent. 

Lina. You must learn to dare. 

BENTLEY [pale but heroic] All right. Ill come. 

Lorp SUMMER- No, no, Bentley, impossible. I 

HAYS shall not allow it. 

Mrs TarLeton | | Do you want to kill the child? He 

shant go. ; 

BentuLey. I will. DH lie down and yell until you let me 
go. [Tm not acoward. I wont be a coward. 

Lorp SumMMERHAYS. Miss Szezepanowska: my son is 
very dear to me. I implore you to wait until tomorrow 
morning. 


106 Misalliance 


Lina. There may be a storm tomorrow. And I'll go: 
storm or no storm. I must risk my life tomorrow. 

BENTLEY. I hope there will be a storm. 

Lina [grasping his arm] You are trembling. 

BENTLEY. Yes: it’s terror, sheer terror. I can hardly 
see. I can hardly stand. But Ill go with you. 

Lina [slapping him on the back and knocking a ghastly 
white smile into his face] You shall. I like you, my boy. 
We go tomorrow, together. 

BENTLEY. Yes: together: tomorrow. 

TARLETON. Well, sufficient unto the day is the evil 
thereof. Read the old book. 

Mrs Tarueton. Is there anything else? 

TarLeTon. Well, I —er [he addresses Lina, and stops]. 
I—er [he addresses Lord Summerhays, and stops]. I —er 
[he gives it up|. Well, I suppose—er—I suppose theres 
nothing more to be said. 

Hypatia [fervently] Thank goodness! 


THE DARK LADY OF THE 
SONNETS 


XX 


1910 


107 








PREFACE TO THE DARK LADY 
OF THE SONNETS 


How the Play came to be Written 


I nap better explain why, in this little piece d’occasion, 
written for a performanee in aid of the funds of the project 
for establishing a National Theatre as a memorial to 
Shakespear, I have identified the Dark Lady with Mistress 
Mary Fitton. First, let me say that I do not contend that 
the Dark Lady was Mary Fitton, because when the case in 
Mary’s favor (or against her, if you please to consider that 
the Dark Lady was no better than she ought to have been) 
was complete, a portrait of Mary came to light and turned 
out to be that of a fair lady, not of a dark one. That 
settles the question, if the portrait is authentic, which I see 
no reason to doubt, and the lady’s hair undyed, which is 
perhaps less certain. Shakespear rubbed in the lady’s com- 
plexion in his sonnets mercilessly; for in his day black 
hair was as unpopular as red hair was in the early days 
of Queen Victoria. Any tinge lighter.than raven black 
must be held fatal to the strongest claim to be the Dark 
Lady. And so, unless it can be shewn that Shakespear’s 
sonnets exasperated Mary Fitton into dyeing her hair and 
getting painted in false colors, I must give up all pretence 
that my play is historical. The later suggestion of Mr 
Acheson that the Dark Lady, far from being a maid of 
109 


110 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


honor, kept a tavern in Oxford and was the mother of 
Davenant the poet, 1s the one I should have adopted had 
I wished to be up to date. Why, then, did I intrcduce the 
Dark Lady as Mistress Fitton? 

Well, I had two reasons. The play was not to have 
been written by me at all, but by Mrs Alfred Lyttelton; 
and it was she who suggested a scene of jealousy between 
Queen Elizabeth and the Dark Lady at the expense of the 
unfortunate Bard. Now this,if the Dark Lady was a maid 
of honor, was quite easy. If she were a tavern landlady, it 
would have strained all probability. So I stuck to Mary 
Fitton. But I had another and more personal reason. I 
was, In a manner, present at the birth of the Fitton theory. 
Its parent and I had become acquainted; and he used to 
consult me on obscure passages i the sonnets, on which, 
as far as I can remember, I never succeeded in throwing 
the faintest light, at a time when nobody else thought my 
opinion, on that or any other subject, of the slightest im- 
portance. I thought it would be friendly to immortalize 
him, as the silly literary saying is, much as Shakespear 
immortalized Mr W. H., as he said he would, simply by 
writing about him. 

Let me tell the story formally. 


Thomas Tyler 


Throughout the eighties at least, and probably for 
some years before, the British Museum reading room was 
used daily by a gentleman of such astonishing and crush- 
ing ugliness that no one who had once seen him could ever 
thereafter forget him. He was of fair complexion, rather 
golden red than sandy; aged betwee forty-five and sixty; 
and dressed in frock coat and tall lat of presentable but 
never new appearance. His figure was rectangular, waist- 
less, neckless, ankleless, of middle height, looking shortish 
because, though he was not particularly stout, there was 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 111 


nothing slender about him. His ugliness was not unami- 
able; it was accidental, external, excrescential. Attached 
to his face from the left ear to the point of his chin was 
a monstrous goitre, which hung down to his collar bone, 
and was very inadequately balanced by a smaller one on 
his right eyelid. Nature’s malice was so overdone in his 
case that it somehow failed to produce the effect of re- 
pulsion it seemed to have aimed at. When you first met 
Thomas Tyler you could think of nothing else but whether 
surgery could really do nothing for him. But after a very 
brief acquaintance you never thought of his disfigure- 
ments at all, and talked to him as you might to Romeo or 
Lovelace; only, so many people, especially women, would 
not risk the preliminary ordeal, that he remained a man 
apart and a bachelor all Ins days. I am not to be fright- 
ened or prejudiced by a tumor; and I struck up a cordial 
acquaintance with him, in the course of which he kept me 
pretty closely on the track of his work at the Museum, 
in which I was then, like himself, a daily reader. 

He was by profession a man of letters of an uncom- 
mercial kind. He was a specialist in pessimism; had made 
a trauslation of Ecclesiastes of which eight copies a year 
were sold; and followed up the pessimism of Shakespear 
and Swift with keen interest. He delighted in a hideous 
conception which he called the theory of the cycles, ac- 
cording to which the history of mankind and the universe 
keeps eternally repeating itself without the slightest varia- 
tion throughout all eternity; so that he had lived and died 
aud had his goitre before and would live and die and have 
it again and again and again. He liked to believe that 
nothing that happened to him was completely novel: he 
was persuaded that he often had some recollection of its 
previous occurrence in the last cycle. He hunted out 
allusions to this favorite theery in his three favorite pessi- 
mists. He tried his hand occasionally at decipheriug 
ancient inscriptions, reading them as people seem to read 


112 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


the stars, by discovering bears and bulls and swords and 
goats where, as it seems to me, no sane human being can 
see anything but stars higgledy-piggledy. Next to the 
translation of Ecclesiastes, his 2nagnum opus was his work 
on Shakespear’s Sonnets, in which he accepted a previous 
identification of Mr W. H., the ‘‘onlie begetter’’ of the 
sonnets, with the Earl of Pembroke (William Herbert), 
and promulgated his own identification of Mistress Mary 
Fitton with the Dark Lady. Whether he was right or 
wrong about the Dark Lady did not matter urgently to 
me: she might have been Maria ‘Tompkins for all I cared. 
But Tyler would have it that she was Mary Fitton; and 
he tracked Mary down from the first of her marriages in 
her teens to her tomb in Cheshire, whither he made a 
pilgrimage and whence returned in triumph with a picture 
of her statue, and the news that he was convinced she 
was a dark lady by traces of paint still discernible. 

In due course he published his edition of the Sonnets, 
with the evidence he had collected. He lent me a copy 
of the book, which I never returned. But I reviewed it in 
the Pall Mall Gazette on the 7th of January 1886, and 
thereby let loose the Fitton theory in a wider circle of 
readers than the book could reach. Then Tyler died, 
sinking unnoted like a stone in the sea. I observed that 
Mr Acheson, Mrs Davenant’s champion, calls him Rev- 
erend. It may very well be that he got his knowledge of 
Hebrew in reading for the Church; and there was always 
something of the clergyman or the schoolmaster in his 
dress and air. Possibly he may actually have been or- 
dained. But he never told me that or anything else about 
his affairs; and his black pessimism would have shot him 
violently out of any church at present established in the 
West. We never talked about affairs: we talked about 
Shakespear, and the Dark Lady, and Swift, and Kohe- 
leth, and the cycles, and the mystcrious moments when a 
feeling came over us that this had happened to us before, 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 113 


and about the forgeries of the Pentateuch which were 
offered for sale to the British Museum, and about litera- 
ture and things of the spirit generally. He always came 
to my desk at the Museum and spoke to me about some- 
thing or other, no doubt finding that people who were 
keen on this sort of conversation were rather scarce. He 
remains a vivid spot of memory m the void of my forget- 
fulness, a quite considerable and dignified soul in a gro- 
tesquely disfiguerd body. 


Frank Harris 


To the review in the Pall Mall Gazette I attribute, 
rightly or wrongly, the introduction of Mary Fitton to Mr 
Frank Harris. My reason for this is that Mr Harris wrote 
a play about Shakespear and Mary Fitton; and when I, 
as a pious duty to Tyler’s ghost, reminded the world that 
it was to Tyler we owed the Fitton theory, Frank Harris, 
who clearly had not a notion of what had first put Mary 
into his head, believed, I think, that I had invented Tyler 
expressly for his discomfiture; for the stress I laid on 
Tyler's claims must have seemed unaccountable and per- 
haps malicious on the assumption that he was to me a mere 
name among the thousands of names in the British Mu- 
seum catalogue. Therefore I make it clear that I had and 
have personal reasons for remembering Tyler, and for 
regarding myself as in some sort charged with the duty of 
reminding the world of his work. Iam sorry for his sake 
that Mary’s portrait is fair, and that Mr W. H. has veered 
round again from Pembroke to Southampton; but even so 
his work was not wasted: it is by exhausting all the hy- 
potheses that we reach the verifiable one; and after all, 
the wrong road always leads somewhere. 

Frank Harris’s play was written long before mine. I 
read it in manuscript before the Shakespear Memorial 
National Theatre was mooted; and if there is anything 


114 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


except the Fitton theory (which is Tyler’s property) in 
my play which is also in Mr Harris’s it was I who an- 
nexed it from him and not he from me. It does not matter 
anyhow, because this play of mine is a brief trifle, and full 
of manifest impossibilities at that; whilst Mr Harris’s 
play is serious both in size, intention, and quality. But 
there could not in the nature of things’) be much resem- 
blanee, because Frank conceives Shakespear to have been 
a broken-hearted, melancholy, enormously sentimental 
person, whereas I am convinced that he was very like 
myself: in fact, if T had been born in 1556 instead of in 
1856, I should have taken to blank verse and given Shakes- 
pear a harder run for his money than all the other Eliza- 
bethans put together. Yet the success of Frank Harris’s 
book on Shakespear gave me great delight. 

To those who know the literary world of London there 
was a sharp stroke of ironic comedy in the irresistible ver- 
dict in its favor. In critical literature there is one prize 
that is always open to competition, one blue ribbon that 
always carries the highest critical rank with it. To win, 
you must write the best book of your generation on Shakes- 
pear. Itis felt on all sides that to do this a certain fastid- 
ious refinement, a delicacy of taste, a correctness of man- 
ner and tone, and high academic distinction in addition to 
the indispensable scholarship and literary reputation, are 
needed; and men who pretend to these qualifications are 
constantly looked to witha gentle expectation that pres- 
ently they will achieve the great feat. Now if there is a 
man on earth who is the utter contrary of everything that 
this description implies; whose very existence is an insult 
to the ideal it realizes; whose eye disparages, whose reso- 
nant voice denounces, whose cold shoulder jostles every 
decency, every delicacy, every amenity, every dignity, 
every sweet usage of that quiet life of mutual admiration 
in which perfect Shakespearian appreciation is expected 
to arise, that man is Frank Harris. Here is one who is 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 115 


extraordinarily qualified, by a range of sympathy and 
understanding that extends from the ribaldry of a buc- 
caneer to the shvest tendernesses of the most sensitive 
poetry, to be all things to all men, vet whose proud humor 
it is to be to every man, provided the man is eminent and 
pretentious, the champion of his enemies. To the Arch- 
bishop he is an atheist, to the atheist a Catholic mystie, 
to the Bismarckian Imperialist an Anacharsis Klootz, to 
Anacharsis Klootz a Washington, to Mrs Proudie a Don 
Juan, to Aspasia a John Knox: in short, to everyone his 
complement rather than his counterpart, his antagonist 
rather than his fellow-creature. Always provided, how- 
ever, that the persons thus confronted are respectable 
persons. Sophie Perovskaia, who perished on the seaffold 
for blowing Alexander II to fragments, may perhaps have 
echoed Hamlet’s 


Oh God, Horatio, what a wounded name— 
Things standing thus unknown—TI leave behind! 


but Frank Harris, in his Sonia, has rescued her from that 
injustice, and enshrined her among the saints. He has 
hifted the Chicago anarchists out of their infamy, and 
shewn that, compared with the Capitalism that killed 
them, they were heroes and martyrs. He has done this 
with the most unusual power of convietion. The story, 
as he tells it, inevitably and irresistibly displaces all the 
vulgar, mean, purblind, spiteful versions. There is a pre- 
cise realism and an unsmiling, measured, determined sin- 
cerity whieh gives a strange dignity to the work of one 
whose fixed practice and ungovernable impulse it is to 
kick conventional digmity whenever he sees it. 


Harris ““durch Mitleid wissend”’ 


Frank Harris is everything except a humorist, not, ap- 
parently, from stupidity, but beeause scorn overcomes 
humor in him. Nobody ever dreamt of reproaching 


116 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Milton’s Lucifer for not seeing the comic side of his fall: 
and nobody who has read Mr Harris’s stories desires to 
have them lightened by chapters from the hand of Arte- 
mus Ward. Yet he knows the taste and the value of 
humor. He was one of the few men of letters who really 
appreciated Oscar Wilde, though he did not rally fiercely 
to Wilde’s side uutil the world deserted Qscar in his ruin. 
I myself was present at a curious meeting between the 
two, when Harris, on the eve of the Queensberry trial, 
prophesied to Wilde with miraculous preeision exactly 
what immediately afterwards happened to him, and 
warned him to leave the country. It was the first time 
within my knowledge that such a forecast proved true. 
Wilde, though under no illusion as to the folly of the quite 
unselfish suit-at-law he had been persuaded to begin, 
nevertheless so miscalculated the force of the social venge- 
ance he was unloosing on himself that he fancied it could 
be staved by putting up the editor of The Saturday Review 
(as Mr Harris then was) to declare that he considered 
Dorian Grey a highly moral book, which it certainly is. 
When Harris foretold him the truth, Wilde denouuced 
him as a fainthearted friend who was failing him in his 
hour of need, and left the room in anger. Harris’s idiosyn- 
cratic power of pity saved him from feeling or shewing 
the smallest resentment; and events presently proved to 
Wilde how insanely he had been advised in taking the ac- 
tion, and how accurately Harris had gauged the situation. 

The same capacity for pity governs Harris’s study of 
Shakespear, whom, as I have said, he pities too much; but 
that he is not insensible to humer js shewn not only by his 
appreciation of Wilde, but by the fact that the group of 
eontributors who made his editorship of The Saturday 
Review so remarkable, and of whom [I speak none the less 
highly because I happened to be one of them myself, were 
all, in their various ways, humorists. 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets = 117 


‘“*Sidney’s Sister: Pembroke’s Mother” 


And now to return to Shakespear. Though Mr Harris 
followed Tyler in identifying Mary Fitton as the Dark 
Lady, and the Earl of Pembroke as the addressee of the 
other sonnets and the man who made love successfully to 
Shakespear’s mistress, he very characteristically refuses 
to follow Tyler on one point, though for the hfe of me I 
cannot remember whether it was one of the surmises 
which Tyler published, or only one which he submitted to 
me to see what I would say about it, just as he used to 
submit difficult lines from the sonnets. 

This surmise was that “‘Sidney’s sister: Pembroke’s 
mother’? set Shakespear on to persuade Pembroke to 
marry, and that this was the explanation of those earlier 
sonnets which so persistently and unnaturally urged matri- 
mony on Mr W.H. I take this to be one of the brightest 
of Tyler’s ideas, beeause the persuasions in the sonnets 
are unaccountable and out of character unless they were 
offered to please somebody whom Shakespear desired to 
please, and who took a motherly interest in Pembroke. 
There is a further temptation in the theory for me. The 
most charming of all Shakespear’s old women, mdeed the 
most charming of all his women, young or old, is the 
Countess of Rousillon in AH’s Well That Ends Well. it 
has a certain individuality among them which suggests a 
portrait. Mr Harris will have it that all Shakespear's 
nice old women are drawn from his beloved mother; but 
I see no evidence whatever that Shakespear’s mother was 
a particularly nice woman or that he was particularly 
fond of her. That she was a simple incarnation of ex- 
travagant maternal pride hke the mother of Coriolanus 
in Plutarch, as Mr Harris asserts, I cannot believe: she ts 
quite as likely to have borne her son a grudge for becom- 
ing “one of these harlotry players’? and disgracing the 


118 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Ardens. Anyhow, as a conjectural model for the Countess 
of Rousillon, I prefer that one of whom Jonson wrote 


Sidney’s sister: Pembroke’s mother: 
Death: ere thou has slain another, 
Learnd and fair and good as she, 
Time shall throw a dart at thee. 


But Frank will not have her at any price, because his ideal 
Shakespear is rather like a sailor in a melodrama; and a 
sailor in a melodrama must adore his mother. I do not at 
all belittle such sailors. They are the emblems of human 
generosity; but Shakespear was not an emblem: he was a 
man and the author of Hamlet, who had no illusions about 
his mother. In weak moments one alinost wishes he had. 


Shakespear’s Social Standing 


On the vexed question of Shakespear’s social standing 
Mr Harris says that Shakespear “‘had not had the ad- 
vantage of a middle-class training.” I suggest that 
Shakespear missed this questionable advantage, not be- 
cause he was socially too low to have attained to it, but 
because he conceived himself as belonging to the upper 
class from which our public school boys are now drawn. 
Let Mr Harris survey for a moment the field of contem- 
porary journalism. He will see there some men who have 
the very characteristics from which he infers that Shake- 
spear was at a social disadvantage through his lack of 
middle-class training. They are rowdy, il-mannered, 
abusive, mischievous, fond of quoting obscene schoolboy 
anecdotes, adepts in that sort of blackmail which consists 
im mercilessly libelling and insulting every writer whose 
opinions are sufficiently heterodox to make it almost im- 
possible for him to risk perhaps five years of a slender in- 
come by an appeal to a prejudiced orthodox jury; and 
they see nothing in all this cruel blackguardism but an 
uproariously jolly rag, although they are by no means 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 119 


without genuine literary ability, a love of letters, and even 
some artistic conscience. But he will find not one of the 
models of his type (I say nothing of mere imitators of it) 
below the rank that looks at the middle class, not humbly 
and enviously from below, but insolently from above. 
Mr Harris himself notes Shakespear’s contempt for the 
tradesman and mechanic, and his incorrigible addiction to 
smutty jokes. He does us the publie service of sweeping 
away the familiar plea of the Bardolatrous ignoramus, 
that Shakespear’s coarseness was part of the manners of 
his time, putting his pen with precision on the one name, 
Spenser, that is necessary to expose such a libel on Eliza- 
bethan decency. There was nothing whatever to pre- 
vent Shakespear from being as decent as More was before 
him, or Bunyan after him, and as self-respecting as Raleigh 
or Sidney, except the tradition of his class, in whieh edu- 
cation or statesmanship may no doubt be acquired by 
those who have a turn for them, but in which insolence, 
derision, profligacy, obscene jesting, debt contracting, and 
rowdy mischievousness, give continual seandal to the 
pious, serious, industrious, solvent bourgeois. No other 
class is infatuated enough to believe that gentlemen are 
born and not made by a very elaborate process of eulture. 
Even kings are taught and coached and drilled from their 
earliest boyhood to play their part. But the man of 
family (I am convinced that Shakespear took that view 
of himself) will plunge into society without a lesson in 
table manners, into politics without a lesson in history, 
into the city without a lesson in business, and into the 
army without a lesson in honor. 

It has been said, with the object of proving Shakespear 
a laborer, that he could hardly write his name. Why? 
Because he “had not the advantage of a middle-class 
training.’ Shakespear himself tells us, through Hamlet, 
that gentlemen purposely wrote badly lest they should be 
mistaken for scriveners; but most of them, then as now, 


120 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


wrote badly because they could not write any better. In 
short, the whole range of Shakespear’s foibles: the snob- 
bishness, the naughtiness, the contempt for tradesmen 
and mechanics, the assumption that witty conversation 
can only mean smutty conversation, the flunkeyism 
towards social superiors and insolence towards social! 
inferiors, the easy ways with servants which is seen not 
only between The Two Gentlemen of Verona and their 
valets, but in the affection and respect inspired by a great 
servant lke Adam: all these are the characteristics of 
Eton and Harrow, not of the public elementary or private 
adventure school. ‘They prove, as everything we know 
about Shakespear suggests, that he thought of the Shake- 
spears and Ardens as families of consequence, and re- 
garded himself as a gentleman under a cloud through his 
father’s ill luck in business, and never for a moment as a 
man of the people. This is at once the explanation of 
and excuse for his snobbery. He was not a parvenu try- 
ing to cover his humble origin with a purchased coat of 
arms: he was a gentleman resuming what he conceived 
to be his natural position as soon as he gained the means 
to keep it up. 


This Side Idolatry 


There is another matter which I think Mr Harris should 
ponder. He says that Shakespear was but “‘little es- 
teemed by his own generation.” He even describes 
Jonson’s description of his “little Latin and less Greek”’ 
as a sneer, whereas it occurs in an unmistakably sincere 
eulogy of Shakespear, written after his death, and 1s 
clearly meant to heighten the impression of Shakespear’s 
prodigious natural endowments by pointing out that they 
were not due to scholastic acquirements. Now there is a 
sense in which it is true enough that Shakespear was too 
little esteemed by his own generation, or, for the matter 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 121 


of that, by any subsequent generation. The bargees on 
the Regent’s Canal do not chant Shakespear's verses as the 
gondoliers in Venice are said to chant the verses of Tasso 
(a practice which was suspended for some reason during 
my stay in Venice: at least no gondolier ever did it in my 
hearing). Shakespear is no more a popular author than 
Rodin is a popular sculptor or Richard Strauss a popular 
composer. But Shakespear was certaimly not such a fool 
as to expect the Toms, Dicks, and Harrys of his time to 
be any more interested in dramatic poetry than Newton, 
later on, expected them to be interested in fluxions. And 
when we come to the question whether Shakespear missed 
that assurance which al! great men have had from the 
more capable and susceptible members of their generation 
that they were great men, Ben Jonson’s evidence disposes 
of so improbable a notion at once and for ever. ‘“‘I loved 
the man,” says Ben, “‘this side idolatry, as well as any.” 
Now why in the name of common sense should he have 
made that qualification unless there had been, not only 
idolatry, but idolatry fulsome enough to irritate Jonson 
into an express disavowal of it? Jonson, the bricklayer, 
must have felt sore sometimes when Shakespear spoke 
and wrote of bricklayers as his inferiors. He must have 
felt it a little hard that being a better scholar, and perhaps 
a braver and tougher man physically than Shakespear, 
he was not so successful or so well hiked. But in spite of 
this he praised Shakespear to the utmost stretch of his 
powers of eulogy: in fact, notwithstanding his disclaimer, 
he did not stop “‘this side idolatry.”’ If, therefore, even 
Jonson felt himself forced to clear himself of extravagance 
and absurdity in his appreciation of Shakespear, there 
must have been many people about who idolized Shake- 
spear as American ladies idolize Paderewski, and who 
carried Bardolatry, even in the Bard’s own time, to an 
extent that threatened to make lis reasonable admirers 
ridiculous. 


122 ‘The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Shakespear’s Pessimism 


I submit to Mr Harris that by ruling out this idolatry, 
and its possible effect in making Shakespear think that his 
public would stand anything from him, he has ruled out 
a far more plausible explanation of the faults of such a play 
as ‘Timon of Athens than his theory that Shakespear’s 
passion for the Dark Lady “‘cankered and took on proud 
flesh in him, and tortured him to nervous breakdown and 
madness.”” In Timon the intellectual bankruptcy is 
obvious enough: Shakespear tried once too often to make 
a play out of the cheap pessimism which is thrown into 
despair by a comparison of actual human nature with 
theoretical morality, actual law and administration with 
abstract justice, and so forth. But Shakespear’s percep- 
tion of the fact that all men, judged by the moral standard 
which they apply to others and by which they justify their 
punishment of others, are fools and scoundrels, does not 
date from the Dark Lady complication: he seems to have 
been born with it. If in The Comedy of Errors and A 
Midsummer Night’s Dream the persons of the drama are 
not quite so ready for treachery and murder as Laertes 
and even Hamlet himself (not to mention the procession 
of ruffians who pass through the latest plays) it is cer- 
tainly not because they have any more regard for law or 
religion. ‘There is only one place in Shakespear’s plays 
where the sense of shame is used as a human attrbute; 
and that is where Hamlet is ashamed, not of anything he 
himself has done, but of his mother’s relations with nis 
uncle. This scene is an unnatural one: the son’s re- 
proaches to his mother, even the fact of his being able to 
discuss the subject with her, is more repulsive than her 
relations with her deceased husband’s brother. 

Here, too, Shakespear betrays for once his religious 
sense by making Hamlet, in his agony of shame, declare 
that his mother’s conduct makes “‘sweet religion a rhap- 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets = 123 


sody of words.’ But for that passage we might almost 
suppose that the feeling of Sunday morning in the country 
which Orlando describes so perfectly in As You Like It 
was the beginning and end of Shakespear’s notion of 
religion. I say almost, because Isabella in Measure for 
Measure has religious charm, in spite of the conventional 
theatrical assumption that female religion means an in- 
humanly ferocious chastity. But for the most part 
Shakespear differentiates his herocs from his villains much 
more by what they do than by what they are. Don John 
in Much Ado is a true villain: a man with a malicious 
will; but he is too dull a duffer to be of any use in a lead- 
ing part; and when we come to the great villains like 
Macbeth, we find, as Mr Harris points out, that they are 
precisely identical with the heroes: Macbeth is only 
Hamlet incongruously committing murders and engaging 
in hand-to-hand combats. And Hamlet, who does not 
dream of apologizing for the three murders he commits, is 
always apologizing because he has not yet committed a 
fourth, and finds, to his great bewilderment, that he does 
not want to commit it. “It cannot be,” he says, “‘but I 
am pigcon-livered, and lack gall to make oppression bitter; 
else, ere this, I should have fatted all the region kites with 
this slave’s offal.”” Really one is tempted to suspect that 
when Shylock asks “Hates any man the thing he would 
not kill?” he is expressing the natural and proper senti- 
ments of the human race as Shakespear understood them, 
and not the vindictiveness of a stage Jew. 


Gaiety of Genius 


In view of these faets, it is dangerous to cite Shake- 
spear’s pessimism as evidence of the despair of a heart 
broken by the Dark Lady. There is an irrepressible 
gaiety of genius which enables it to bear the whole weight 
of the world’s misery without blenching. There is a 


124 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


laugh always ready to avenge its tears of discouragement. 
In the lines which Mr Harris quotes only to declare that 
he can make nothing of them, and to condemn them as 
out of character, Richard III, immediately after pitying 
himself because 


There is no creature loves me 
And if I die no soul will pity me, 
adds, with a grin, 


Nay, wherefore should they, since that I myself 
Find in myself no pity for myself? 


Let me again remind Mr Harris of Osear Wilde. We 
all dreaded to read De Profundis: our instinet was to stop 
our ears, or run away from the wail of a broken, though by 
no means contrite, heart. But we were throwing away our 
pity. De Profundis was de profundis indeed: Wilde was 
too good a dramatist to throw away so powerful an effect; 
but none the less it was de profundis in excelsis. There 
was more laughter between the lines of that book than in 
a thousand farces by men of no genius. Wilde, like 
Richard and Shakespear, found in himself no pity for him- 
self. There is nothing that marks the born dramatist 
more unmistakably than this discovery of comedy in his 
own misfortunes almost in proportion to the pathos with 
whieh the ordinary man announces their tragedy. I can- 
not for the life of me see the broken heart in Shakespear’s 
latest works. ‘‘Hark, hark! the lark at heaven’s gate 
sings’? is not the lyrie of a broken man; nor is Cloten’s 
comment that if Imogen does not appreciate it, “‘it is a 
vice in her ears which horse hairs, and cats’ guts, and the 
voice of unpaved eunuch to boot, can never amend,” the 
sally of a saddened one. Is it not clear that to the last 
there was in Shakespear an incorrigible divine levity, an 
inexhaustible joy that derided sorrow? Think of the poor 
Dark Lady having to stand up to this unbearable power 
of extracting a grim fun from everything. Mr Harris 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 125 


writes as if Shakespear did all the suffering and the Dark 
Lady all the cruelty. But why does he not put himself 
in the Dark Lady’s place for a moment as he has put him- 
self so successfully in Shakespear’s? Imagine her read- 
ing the hundred and thirtieth sonnet! 

My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun; 

Coral is far more red than her lips’ red; 

If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun; 

If hairs be wire, black wires grow on her head; 

I have seen roses damasked, red and white, 

But no such roses see I in her cheeks; 

And in some perfumes is there more delight 

Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks. 

I love to hear her speak; yet well I know 

That music hath a far more pleasing sound. 

I grant I never saw a goddess go: 

My mistress, when she walks, treads on the ground. 

And yet, by heaven, I think my love as rare 
As any she belied with false compare. 

Take this as a sample of the sort of compliment from which 
she was never for a moment safe with Shakespear. Bear in 
mind that she was not a comedian; that the Elizabethan 
fashion of treating brunettes as ugly woman must have 
made her rather sore on the subject of her complexion; | 
that no human being, male or female, can conceivably 
enjoy being chaffed on that point in the fourth couplet 
about the perfumes; that Shakespear’s revulsions, as the 
sonnet immediately preceding shews, were as violent as 
his ardors, and were expressed with the realistic power and 
horror that makes Hamlet say that the heavens got sick 
when they saw the queen’s conduct; and then ask Mr 
Harris whether any woman could have stood it for long, 
or have thought the “sugred’’? compliment worth the 
cruel wounds, the cleaving of the heart in twain, that 
seemed to Shakespear as natural and amusing a reaction 
as the burlesquing of his heroics by Pistol, lis sermons 
by Falstaff, and his poems by Cloten and Touchstone. 


126 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Jupiter and Semele 


This does not mean that Shakespear was cruel: evidently 
he was not; but it was not cruelty that made Jupiter re- 
duee Semele to ashes: it was the fact that he could not 
help being a god nor she help being a mortal. The one 
thing Shakespear’s passion for the Dark Lady was not, 
was what Mr Harris in one passage calls it: idolatrous. If 
it had been, she might have been able to stand it. The 
man who “‘dotes yet doubts, suspeets, yet strongly loves,”’ 
is tolerable even by a spoilt and tyrannical mistress; but 
what woman eould possibly endure a man who dotes 
without doubting; who knows, and who is hugely amused 
at the absurdity of his infatuation for a woman of whose 
mortal imperfections not one eseapes him: a man always 
exchanging grins with Yorick’s skull, and inviting “my 
lady”? to laugh at the sepulehral humor of the faet that 
though she paint an ineh thiek (which the Dark Lady may 
have done), to Yorick’s favor she must come at last. To 
the Dark Lady he must sometimes have seemed cruel be- 
yond deseription: an intellectual Caliban. True, a Cali- 
ban who could say 


Be not afeard: the isle is full of noises 

Sounds and sweet airs that give delight and hurt not. 
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments 

Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices, 
That, if I then had waked after long sleep 

Will make me sleep again; and then, in dreaming, 
The clouds, methought, would open and shew riches 
Ready to drop on me: that when I wak’d 

I eried to dream again. 


which is very lovely; but the Dark Lady may have had that 
viee in her ears which Cloten dreaded: she may not have 
seen the beauty of it, whereas there can be no doubt at all 
that of ‘My mistress’ eyes are nothing hke the sun,” &c., 
not a word was lost on her. 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 127 


And is it to be supposed that Shakespear was too stupid 
or too modest not to see at last that it was a ease of Jupiter 
and Semele? Shakespear was most certainly not modest 
in that sense. The timid cough of the mmor poet was 
never heard from him. 


Not marble, nor the gilded monuments 
Of princes, shall outlive this powerful rhyme 


is only one out of a dozen passages in which he (possibly 
with a keen sense of the fun of scandalizing the modest 
coughers) proclaimed his place and his power in “‘the wide 
world dreaming of things to come.” The Dark Lady 
most likely thought this side of him insufferably con- 
eeited; for there is no reason to suppose that she liked his 
plays any better than Minna Wagner liked Richard’s 
musie dramas: as likely as not, she thought The Spanish 
Tragedy worth six Hamlets. He was not stupid either: 
if his elass limitations and a profession that cut him off 
from actual participation in great affairs of State had not 
confined his opportunities of intellectual and_ political 
training to private conversation and to the Mermaid 
Tavern, he would probably have beeome one of the ablest 
men of his time instead of being merely its ablest play- 
wright. One might surmise that Shakespear found out 
that the Dark Lady’s brains could no more keep pace 
with his than Anne Hathaway’s, if there were any evi- 
dence that their friendship ceased when he stopped writing 
sonnets to her. As a matter of fact the consolidation of 
a passion into an enduring intimaey generally puts an 
end to sonnets. 

That the Dark Lady broke Shakespear's heart, as Mr 
Harris will have it she did, is an extremely unShake- 
spearian hypothesis. ‘‘ Men have died from time to time, 
and worms have eaten them; but not for love,” says 
Rosalind. Richard of Gloster, into whom Shakespear put 


128 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


all his own impish superiority to vulgar sentiment, 
exclaims 


And this word “‘love,”’ which greybeards call divine, 
Be resident in men like one another 
And not in me: I am myself alone. 


Hamlet has not a tear for Ophelia: her death moves him 
to fierce disgust for the sentimentality of Laertes by her 
grave; and when he discusses the scene with Horatio 
immediately after, he utterly forgets her, though he is 
sorry he forgot himself, and jumps at the proposal of a 
fencing match to finish the day with. As against this 
view Mr Harris pleads Romeo, Orsino, and even Antonio; 
and he does it so penetratingly that he convinces you that 
Shakespear did betray himself again and again in these 
characters; but self-betrayal is one thing; and _ self- 
portrayal, asin Hamlet and Mercutio, is another. Shake- 
spear never “‘saw himself,” as actors say, in Romeo or 
Orsino or Antonio. In Mr Harris’s own play Shakespear 
is presented with the most pathetie tenderness. He is 
tragic, bitter, pitiable, wretched and broken among a 
robust crowd of Jonsons and Elizabeths; but to me he is 
not Shakespear because I miss the Shakespearian irony 
and the Shakespearian gaiety. Take these away and 
Shakespear is no longer Shakespear: all the bite, the im- 
petus, the strength, the grim delight in his own power of 
looking terrible facts in the face with a chuckle, is gone; 
and you have nothing left but that most depressing of all 
things: a victim. Now who can think of Shakespear as a 
man with a grievance? Even in that most thoroughgoing 
and inspired of all Shakespear’s loves: his love of music 
(which Mr Harris has been the first to appreciate at any- 
thing like its value), there is a dash of mockery. “Spit 
in the hole, man; and tune again.” “Divine air! Now 
is his soul ravished. Is it not strange that sheep’s guts 
should hale the souls out of men’s bodies?”’ ‘“‘An he had 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 129 


been a dog that should have howled thus, they would have 
hanged him.” There is just as much Shakespear here as 
in the inevitable quotation about the sweet south and 
the bank of violets. 

I lay stress on this irony of Shakespear’s, this impish re- 
joieing in pessimism, this exultation in what breaks the 
hearts of common men, not only beeause it is diagnostic 
of that immense energy of life whieh we call genius, but 
beeause its omission is the one glaring defect in Mr Harris’s 
otherwise extraordinarily penetrating book. Fortunately, 
it is an omission that does not disable the book as (in my 
judgment) it disabled the hero of the play, beeause Mr 
Harris left himself out of his play, whereas he pervades 
his book, mordant, deep-voiced, and with an uneonquer- 
able style which is the man. 


The Idol of the Bardolaters 


There is even an advantage in having a book on Shake- 
spear with the Shakespearian irony left out of aeeount. I 
do not say that the missing ehapter should not be added 
in the next edition: the hiatus is too great: it leaves the 
reader too uneasy before this touching pieture of a writh- 
ing worm substituted for the invulnerable giant. But it 
is none the less probable that in no other way eould Mr 
Harris have got at his man as he has. For, after all, what 
is the secret of the hopeless failure of the aeademie Bar- 
dolaters to give us a eredible or even interesting Shake- 
spear, and the easy triumph of Mr Harris in giving us 
both? Simply that Mr Harris has assumed that he was 
dealing with a man, whilst the others have assumed that 
they were writing about a god, and have therefore re- 
jected every consideration of faet, tradition, or interpreta- 
tion, that pointed to any human imperfection in their hero. 
They thus leave themselves with so little material that 
they are forced to begin by saying that we know very 


130 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


little about Shakespear. As a matter of fact, with the 
plays and sonnets in our hands, we know much more 
about Shakespear than we know about Dickens or Thack- 
eray: the only difficulty is that we deliberately suppress 
it because it proves that Shakespear was not only very 
unlike the conception of a god current in Clapham, but 
was not, aceording to the same reckoning, even a respect- 
able man. The academic view starts with a Shakespear 
who was not scurrilous; therefore the verses about “lousy 
Lucy” cannot have been written by him, and the cognate 
passages in the plays are either strokes of character- 
drawing or gags interpolated by the actors. This ideal 
Shakespear was too well behaved to get drunk; therefore 
the tradition that his death was hastened by a drinking 
bout with Jonson and Drayton must be rejected, and the 
remorse of Cassio treated as a thing observed, not experi- 
enced: nay, the disgust of Hamlet at the drinking cus- 
toms of Denmark is taken to establish Shakespear as the 
superior of Alexander in self-control, and the greatest of 
teetotallers. 

Now this system of inventing your great man to start 
with, and then rejecting all the materials that do not fit 
him, with the ridiculous result that you have to declare 
that there are no materials at all (with your waste-paper 
basket full of them), ends in leaving Shakespear with a 
much worse character than he deserves. For though it 
does not greatly matter whether he wrote the lousy Lucy 
lines or not, and does not really matter at all whether he 
got drunk when he made a night of it with Jonson and 
Drayton, the sonnets raise an unpleasant question which 
does matter a good deal; and the refusal of the academic 
Bardolaters to discuss or even mention this question has 
had the effect of producing a silent verdict against Shake- 
spear. Mr Harris tackles the question openly, and has no 
difficulty whatever in convincing us that Shakespear was 
a man of normal constitution sexually, and was not the 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 131 


victim of that most cruel and pitiable of all the freaks of 
nature: the freak which transposes the normal aim of the 
affections. Silence on this point means condemnation; 
and the condemnation has been general throughout the 
present generation, though it only needed Mr Harris’s 
fearless handling of the matter to sweep away what is 
nothing but a morbid and very disagreeable modern fash- 
ion. There is always some stock accusation brought 
against eminent persons. When I was a boy every well- 
known man was accused of beating his wife. Later on, 
for some unexplained reason, he was accused of psycho- 
pathic derangement. And this fashion is retrospective. 
The cases of Shakespear and Michel Angelo are cited as 
proving that every genius of the first magnitude was a 
sufferer; and both here and in Germany there are circles 
in which such derangement is grotesquely reverenced as 
part of the stigmata of hervic powers. All of which is 
gross nonsense. Unfortunately, in Shakespear’s case, 
prudery, which cannot prevent the accusation from being 
whispered, does prevent the refutation from being shouted. 
Mr Harris, the deep-voiced, refuses to be silenced. He 
dismisses with proper contempt the stupidity which places 
an outrageous construction on Shakespear’s apologies in 
the sonnets for neglecting that ‘“‘perfect ceremony”’ of 
love which consists in returning calls and making protesta- 
tions and giving presents and paying the trumpcry atten- 
tions which men of genius always refuse to bother about, 
and to which touchy people who have no genius attach so 
much importance. No leader who had not been tam- 
pered with by the psychopathic monomaniacs could ever 
put any construction but the obvious and innocent one on 
these passages. But the general vocabulary of the son- 
nets to Pembroke (or whoever “Mr W. H.”’ really was) is 
so overcharged according to modern ideas that a reply on 
the general case is necessary. 


132. The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Shakespear’s alleged Sycophancy and 
Perversion 


That reply, which Mr Harris does not hesitate to give, 
is twofold: first, that Shakespear was, in his attitude 
towards earls, a sycophant; and, second, that the nor- 
mality of Shakespear’s sexual constitution is only too well 
attested by the excessive susceptibility to the normal im- 
pulse shewn in the whole mass of his writings. This latter 
is the really conclusive reply. In the case of Michel 
Angelo, for instance, one must admit that if his works are 
set beside those of Titian or Paul Veronese, it is impossible 
not to be struck by the absence in the Florentine of that 
susceptibility to feminine charm which pervades the 
pictures of the Venetians. But, as Mr Harris points out 
(though he does not use this particular illustration) Paul 
Veronese is an anchorite compared to Shakespear. The 
language of the sonnets addressed to Pembroke, extrava- 
gant as it now seems, is the language of compliment and 
fashion, transfigured no doubt by Shakespear’s verbal 
magic, and hyperbolical, as Shakespear always seems to 
people who cannot conceive so vividly as he, but still un- 
mistakable for anything else than the expression of a 
friendship delicate enough to be wounded, and a manly 
loyalty deep enough to be outraged. But the language 
of the sonnets to the Dark Lady is the language of 
passion: their cruelty shews it. There is no evidence 
that Shakespear was capable of bemg unkind in cold 
blood. But in his revulsions from love, he was bitter, 
wounding, even ferocious; sparing neither himself nor 
the unfortunate woman whose only offence was that 
she had reduced the great man to the common human 
denominator. 

In seizing on these two points Mr Harris has made so 
sure a stroke, and placed his evidence so featly that there 
is nothing left for me to do but to plead that the second is 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets —133 


sounder than the first, which is, I think, marked by the 
prevalent mistake as to Shakespear’s social position, or, 
if you prefer it, the confusion between his actual social 
position as a penniless tradesman’s son taking to the 
theatre for a livelihood, and his own conception of him- 
self as a gentleman of good family. Jam prepared to con- 
tend that though Shakespear was undoubtedly senti- 
mental in his expressions of devotion to Mr W. H. even 
to a point which nowadays makes both ridiculous, he was 
not sycophantic if Mr W. H. was really attractive and 
promising, and Shakespear deeply attached to him. A 
sycophant does not tell his patron that his fame will sur- 
vive, not in the renown of his own actions, but in the son- 
nets of his sycophant. A sycophant, when his patron 
cuts him out in a love affair, does not tell his patron 
exactly what he thinks of him. Above all, a sycophant 
does not write to his patron precisely as he feels on all 
occasions; and this rare kind of sincerity is all over the 
sonnets. Shakespear, we are told, was “a very civil 
gentleman.” ‘This must mean that his desire to please 
people and be liked by them, and his reluctance to hurt 
their feelings, led him into amiable flattery even when his 
feelings were not strongly stirred. If this be taken into 
account along with the fact that Shakespear conceived and 
expressed all his emotions with a vehemence that some- 
times carried him into ludicrous extravagance, making 
Richard offer his kingdom for a horse and Othello declare 
of Cassio that 


Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge 
Had stomach for them all, 


we shall see more civility and hyperbole than sycophancy 
even in the earlier and more coldblooded sonnets. 


184 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Shakespear and Democracy 


Now take the general case pled against Shakespear as 
an enemy of democracy by Tolstoy, the late Ernest Crosbie 
and others, and endorsed by Mr Harris. Will it really 
stand fire? Mr Harris emphasizes the passages in which 
Shakespear spoke of mechanics and even of small master 
tradesmen as base persons whose clothes were greasy, 
whose breath was rank, and whose political imbecility 
and eaprice moved Coriolanus to say to the Roman Radi- 
cal who demanded at least “good words”’ from him 


He that will give good words to thee will flatter 
Beneath abhorring. 


But let us be honest. As political sentiments these lines 
are an abomination to every democrat. But suppose they 
are not political sentiments! Suppose they are merely a 
record of observed fact. John Stuart Mill told our Brit- 
ish workmen that they were mostly liars. Carlyle told 
us all that we are mostly fools. Matthew Arnold and 
Ruskin were more circumstantial and more abusive. 
Everybody, including the workers themselves, know that 
they are dirty, drunken, foul-mouthed, ignorant, glutton- 
ous, prejudiced: in short, heirs to the peculiar ills of poverty 
and slavery, as well as co-heirs with the plutocracy to all 
the failings of human nature. Even Shelley admitted, 
200 years after Shakespear wrote Coriolanus, that univer- 
sal suffrage was out of the question. Surely the real test, 
not of Democracy, which was not a live political issue in 
Shakespear’s time, but of impartiality in judging classes, 
which is what one demands from a great human poet, is 
not that he should flatter the poor and denounce the rich, 
but that he should weigh them both in the same balance. 
Now whoever will read Lear and Measure for Measure 
will find stamped on his mind such an appalled sense of 
the danger of dressing man in a little brief authority, such 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 135 


6 


a merciless stripping of the purple from the “‘poor, bare, 
forked animal”’ that calls itself a king and fancies itself a 
god, that one wonders what was the real nature of the 
mysterions restraint that kept “Eliza and our James” from 
teaching Shakespear to be civil to erowned heads, just as 
one wonders why Tolstoy was allowed to go free when so 
many less terrible levellers went to the galleys or Siberia. 
From the mature Shakespear we get no such scenes of 
village snobbery as that between the stage country gentle- 
man Alexander Iden and the stage Radieal Jack Cade. 
We get the shepherd in As You Like It, and many honest, 
brave, human, and loyal servants, beside the inevitable 
comic ones. Even in the Jingo play, Henry V, we get 
Bates and Williams drawn with all respect and honor as 
normal rank and file men. In Julius Caesar, Shakespear 
went to work with a will when he teok his cue from Plu- 
tarch in glorifying regicide and transfiguring the republi- 
cans. Indeed hero-worshippers have never forgiven him 
for belittling Caesar and failing to see that side of his as- 
sassination which made Goethe denounce it as the most 
senseless of crimes. Put the play beside the Charles I 
of Wills, in whieh Cromwell is written down to a point at 
which the Jack Cade of Henry VI becomes a hero in com- 
parison; and then believe, if you ean, that Shakespear 
was one of them that “crook the pregnant hinges of the 
knee where thrift may follow fawning.” Think of Rosen- 
erantz, Guildenstern, Osrie, the fop who annoyed Hotspur, 
and a dozen passages concerning such people! If such 
evidence can prove anything (and Mr Harris relies through- 
out on such evidenee) Shakespear loathed courtiers. 

If, on the other hand, Shakespear’s characters are mostly 
members of the leisured classes, the same thing is true of 
Mr Harris’s own plays and mine. Industrial slavery is 
not compatible with that freedom of adventure, that per- 
sonal refinement and intellectual culture, that seope of 
action, which the higher and subtler drama demands. 


136 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Even Cervantes had finally to drop Don Quixote’s troubles 
with innkeepers demanding to be paid for his food and 
lodging, and make him as free of economic difficulties as 
Amadis de Gaul. Hamlet’s experiences simply could not 
have happened to a plumber. <A poor man is useful on the 
stage only as a blind man is: to excite sympathy. The 
poverty of the apothecary in Romeo and Juliet produces 
a great effect, and even points the sound moral that a poor 
man cannot afford to have a conscience; but if all the 
characters of the play had been as poor as he, it would 
have been nothing but a melodrama of the sort that the 
Sicilian players gave us here; and that was not the best 
that lay in Shakespear’s power. When poverty is abol- 
ished, and leisure and grace of life become general, the 
only plays surviving from our epoch which will have any 
relation to life as it will be lived then will be those in which 
none of the persons represented are troubled with want of 
money or wretched drudgery. Our plays of poverty and 
squalor, now the only ones that are true to the life of the 
majority of living men, will then be classed with the rec- 
ords of misers and monsters, and read only by historical 
students of social pathology. 

Then consider Shakespear’s kings and lords and gentle- 
men! Would even John Ball or Jeremiah complain that 
they are flattered? Surely a more mercilessly exposed 
string of scoundrels never crossed the stage. The very 
monarch who paralyzes a rebel by appealing to the divinity 
that hedges a king, is a drunken and sensual assassin, and 
is preseutly killed contemptuously before our eyes in spite 
of his hedge of divinity. I could write as convincing a 
chapter on Shakespear’s Dickensian prejudice against the 
throne and the nobility and gentry in general as Mr Harris 
or Ernest Crosbie on the other side. I could even go so 
far as to contend that one of Shakespear’s defects is his 
lack of an intelligent comprehension of feudalism. He 
had of course no prevision of democratic Collectivism. He 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 137 


was, except in the commonplaces of war and patriotism, 
a privateer through and through. Nobody in his plays, 
whether king or citizen, has any civil public business or 
conception of such a thing, except in the method of ap- 
pointing constables, to the abuses in which he called at- 
tention quite in the vein of the Fabian Society. He was 
concerned about drunkenness and about the idolatry and 
hypocrisy of our judicial system; but his implied remedy 
was personal sobriety and freedom from idolatrous illusion 
in so far as he had any remedy at all, and did not merely 
despair of human nature. His first and last word on par- 
liament was “‘Get thee glass eyes, and, like a scurvy poli- 
ticlan, seem to see the thing thou dost not.’? He had no 
notion of the feeling with which the land nationalizers of 
today regard the fact that he was a party to the enclosure 
of common lands at Wellcome. The explanation ts, not 
a general deficiency in his mind, but the simple fact that 
in his day what English land needed was individual ap- 
propriation and cultivation, and what the English Con- 
stitution needed was the incorporation of Whig principles 
of individual liberty. 


Shakespear and the British Public 


I have rejected Mr Harris’s view that Shakespear died 
broken-hearted of “‘the pangs of love despised.’”’ I have 
given my reasons for believing that Shakespear died game, 
and indeed in a state of levity which would have been con- 
sidered unbecoming in a bishop. But Mr Harris’s evi- 
dence does prove that Shakespear had a grievance and a 
very serious one. He might have been jilted by ten dark 
ladies and been none the worse for it; but his treatment 
by the British Public was another matter. The idolatry 
which exasperated Ben Jonson was by no means a popular 
movement; and, like all such idolatries, it was excited by 
the magic of Shakespear’s art rather than by his views. 


138 ‘The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


He was launched on his career as a successful playwright 
by the Henry VI trilogy, a work of no originality, depth, 
or subtlety except the originality, depth, and subtlety of 
the feelings and fancies of the common people. But 
Shakespear was not satisfied with this. What is the use 
of being Shakespear if you are not allowed to express any 
notions but those of Autolycus? Shakespear did not see 
the world as Autolycus did: he saw it, if not exactly as 
Ibsen did (for it was not quite the same world), at least 
with much of Ibsen’s power of penetrating its illusions and 
idolatries, and with all Swift’s horror of its cruelty and 
uncleanliness. 

Now it happens to some men with these powers that 
they are forced to impose their fullest exercise on the 
world because they cannot produce popular work. ‘Take 
Wagner and Ibsen for instance! ‘Their earlier works are 
no doubt much cheaper than their later ones; still, they 
were not popular when they were written. The alterna- 
tive of doing popular work was never really open to them: 
had they stooped they would have picked up less than 
they snatched from above the people’s heads. But Handel 
and Shakespear were not held to their best in this way. 
They could turn out anything they were asked for, and 
even heap up the measure. They reviled the British 
Public, and never forgave it for ignoring their best work 
and admiring their splendid commonplaces; but they 
produced the commonplaces all the same, and made them 
sound magnificent by mere brute faculty for their art. 
When Shakespear was forced to write popular plays to 
save his theatre from ruin, he did it mutinously, calling the 
plays “‘As You Like It,” and “‘ Much Ado About Nothing.” 
All the same, he did it so well that to this day these two 
genial vulgarities are the main Shakespearian stock-in- 
trade of our theatres. Later on Burbage’s power and pop- 
ularity as an actor enabled Shakespear to free himself from 
the tyranny of the box office, and to express himself more 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 139 


freely in plays consisting largely of monologue to be 
spoken by a great actor from whom the public would stand 
a good deal. The history of Shakespear’s tragedies has 
thus been the lustory of a long line of famous actors, from 
Burbage and Betterton to Forbes Robertson; and the 
man of whom we are told that ““when he would have said 
that Richard died, and cried A horse! A horse! he Bur- 
bage cried’’ was the father of nine generatious of Shake- 
spearian playgoers, all speaking of Garrick’s Richard, and 
Kean’s Othello, and Irving’s Shylock, and Forbes Robert- 
son’s Hamlet without knowing or caring how much these 
had to do with Shakespear’s Richard and Othello and so 
forth. And the plays which were written without great 
and predominant parts, such as Troilus and Cressida, All's 
Well That Ends Well, and Measure for Measure, have 
dropped on our stage as dead as the second part of Goethe's 
Faust or Ibsen’s Emperor or Galilean. 

Here, then, Shakespear had a real grievance; and though 
it is a sentimental exaggeration to describe him as a 
broken-hearted man in the face of the passages of reckless 
jollity and serenely happy poetry in his latest plays, yet 
the discovery that his most serious work could reach suc- 
cess only when carried on the back of a very fascinating 
actor who was enormously overcharging his part, and that 
the serious plays which did not contain parts big enough 
to hold the overcharge were left on the shelf, amply ac- 
counts for the evident fact that Shakespear did not end 
his life in a glow of enthusiastic satisfaction with mankind 
and with the theatre, which is all that Mr Harris can 
allege in support of his broken-heart theory. But even 
if Shakespear had had no failures, it was not possible for a 
man of his powers to observe the political and moral con- 
duct of his contemporaries without perceiving that they 
were incapable of dealing with the problems raised by their 
own civilization, and that their attempts to carry out the 
codes of law and to practise the religions offered to them 


140 ‘The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


by great prophets and law-givers were and still are so 
foolish that we now call for The Superman, virtually a 
new species, to rescue the world from mismanagement. 
This is the real sorrow of great men; and in the face of it 
the notion that when a great man speaks bitterly or looks 
melancholy he must be troubled by a disappointment in 
love seems to me sentimental trifling. 

If I have carried the reader with me thus far, he will 
find that trivial as this little play of mine is, its sketch of 
Shakespear is more complete than its levity suggests. 
Alas! its appeal for a National Theatre as a monument to 
Shakespear failed to touch the very stupid people who 
cannot see that a National Theatre is worth having for 
the sake of the National Soul. I had unfortunately repre- 
sented Shakespear as treasuring and using (as I do myself) 
the jewels of unconsciously musical speech which common 
people utter and throw away every day; and this was 
taken as a disparagement of Shakespear’s “originality.” 
Why was I born with such contemporaries? Why is 
Shakespear made ridiculous by such a posterity? 


reas> The Dark ITady of The Sonnets was first performed 
at the Haymarket Theatre, on the afternoon of Thursday, the 
Q4th November 1910, by Mona Limerick as the Dark Lady, 
Suzanne Sheldon as Queen Elizabeth, Granville Barker as 
Shakespear, and Hugh Tabberer as the Warder. 


THE DARK LADY OF THE SONNETS 


Fin de siecle 15-1600. Midsummer night on the terrace 
of the Palace at Whitehall, overlooking the Thames. The 
Palace clock chimes four quarters and strikes eleven. 

A Beefeater on guard. A Cloaked Man approaches. 


Tue BEEFEATER. Stand. Who goes there? Give the 
word. 

THe Man. Marry! Icannot. Ihave clean forgotten it. 

THE BrEFEATER. Then cannot you pass here. What 
is your business? Who are you? Are you a true man? 

Tne Man. Far from it, Master Warder. I am not the 
saine man two days together: sometimes Adam, some- 
times Benvolio, and anon the Ghost. 

Tue BEEFEATER [recoiling] A ghost! Angels and min- 
isters of grace defend us! 

Tne Man. Well said, Master Warder. With your 
leave I will set that down in writing; for I have a very 
poor and unhappy brain for remembrance. [J//e takes out 
his tablets and writes|. Methinks this is a good scene, with 
you on your lonely watch, and I approaching like a ghost 
inthe moonlight. Stare not so amazedly at me; but mark 
what I say. I keep tryst here to-night with a dark lady. 
She promised to bribe the warder. I gave her the where- 
withal: four tiekets for the Globe Theatre. 

Tne BEEreaTER. Plague on her! She gave ine two 
only. 

Tus Man [detaching a tablet] My friend: present this 

141 


142. The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


tablet, and you will be welcomed at any time when the 
plays of Will Shakespear are in hand. Bring your wife. 
Bring your friends. Bring the whole garrison. There is 
ever plenty of room. 

Tue Beereater. I care not for these new-fangled 
plays. No man can understand a word of them. They 
are all talk. Will you not give me a pass for The Spanish 
Tragedy? 

THE Man. To see The Spanish Tragedy one pays, my 
friend. Here are the means. [He gives him a piece of gold]. 

Tue BEEFEATER [overwhelmed] Gold! Oh, sir, you are a 
better paymaster than your dark lady. 

Tue Man. Women are thrifty, my friend. 

Tue BeereaTerR. Tis so, sir. And you have to con- 
sider that the most open handed of us must een cheapen 
that which we buy every day. This lady has to make a 
present to a warder nigh every night of her life. 

Tue MAN [turning pale] Ill not believe it. 

Ture Beereater. Now you, sir, I dare be sworn, do not 
have an adventure like this twice in the year. 

Tue Man. Villain: wouldst tell me that my dark lady 
hath ever done thus before? that she maketh occasions 
to meet other men? 

Tue BEEFEATER. Now the Lord bless your innocence, 
sir, do you think you are the only pretty man in the world? 
A merry lady, sir: a warm bit of stuff. Goto: Pll not see 
her pass a deceit on a gentleman that hath given me the 
first piece of gold I ever handled. 

Tue Man. Master Warder: is it not a strange thing 
that we, knowing that all women are false, should be 
amazed to find our own particular drab no better than the 
rest? 

Tne BeereaterR. Not all, sir. Decent bodies, many 
of them. 

THe Man [intolerantly] No. All false. All. IRf thou 
deny it, thou liest. 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 143 


Tue BreEreatER. You judge too much by the Court, 
sir. There, indeed, you may say of frailty that its name is 
woman. 

THe Man [pulling out his tablets again] Prithee say that 
again: that about frailty: the strain of musie. 

THe BEEFEATER. What strain of music, sir? I’m no 
musician, God knows. 

Tue Man. There is music in your soul: many of your 
degree have it very notably. [JVriting] “‘Frailty: thy 
name is woman!” [Repeating tt affeetionately] ‘“‘ Thy name 
is woman.” 

Tut BEEFEATER. Well, sir, it 1s but four words. Are 
you a snapper-up of such unconsidered trifles? 

Tue Man [eagerly] Snapper-up of — [he gasps} Oh! 
Immortal phrase! [He writes it down]. This man is a 
greater than I. 

THE BEEFEATER. You have my lord Pembroke’s triek, 
sir. 

Tur Man. Like enough: he is my near friend. But 
what call you his trick? 

Tut BEEreatER. Making sonnets by moonlight. And 
to the same lady too. 

Tur Man. No! 

Tut BEEFEATER. Last night he stood here on your 
errand, and in your shoes. 

Tne Man. Thou, too, Brutus! And I ealled him friend! 

THE BEEFEATER. Tis ever so, sir. 

Tue Man. Tis ever so. Twas ever so. [Ie turns 
away, overeome]. Two Gentlemen of Verona! Judas! 
Judas!! 

Tue BEEFEATER. Is he so bad as that, sir? 

Tur Man [reeovering his eharity and_ self-possession| 
Bad? Ohno. Human, Master Warder, human. We eall 
one another names when we are offended, as children do. 
That is all. 

THe BEErEATER. Ay, sir: words, words, words. Mere 


144. The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


wind, sir. We fill our bellies with the east wind, sir, as the 
Scripture hath it. You cannot feed capons so. 

Tue Man. A good cadence. By your leave [He makes 
a note of 2t]. 

Tue BreereaTeR. What manner of thing is a cadence, 
sir? I have not heard of it. 

Tue Man. A thing to rule the world with, friend. 

Tue BeEreatTeER. You speak strangely, sir: no offence.’ 
But, an’t hke you, you area very civil gentleman; anda 
poor man feels drawn to you, you being, as twere, willing 
to share your thought with him. 

Tue Man. Tis my trade. But alas! the world for the 
most part will none of my thoughts. 

Lamplight streams from the palace door as it opens from 
within. 

Tue BrEreateR. Here comes your lady, sir. Ill to 
other end of my ward. You may een take your time about 
your business: I shall not return too suddenly unless my 
sergeant comes prowling round. Tis a fell sergeant, sir: 
strict in his arrest. Go’d’en, sir; and good luck! [He goes]. 

THe Man. “Strict in his arrest’! ‘‘Fell sergeant”’! 
[As if tasting a ripe plum] O-o-o-h! [He makes a note of 
them|. 

A Cloaked Lady gropes her way from the palace and wan- 
ders along the terrace, walking in her sleep. 

Tue Lapy [rubbing her hands as if washing them] Out, 
damned spot. You will mar all with these cosmetics. God 
made you one face; and you make yourself another. 
Think of your grave, woman, not ever of being beautified. 
All the perfumes of Arabia will not whiten this Tudor hand. 

Tue Man. ‘All the perfumes of Arabia”! ‘“‘Beauti- 
fied”! ‘“‘Beautified’’! a poem in a single word. Can this 
be my Mary? [To the Lady| Why do you speak in a 
strange voice, and utter poetry for the first time? Are you 
ailing? You walk like the dead. Mary! Mary! 

Tue Lavy [echoing him] Mary! Mary! Who would 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 145 


have thought that woman to have had so much blood in 
her! Is it my fault that my counsellors put deeds of blood 
on me? Fie! If you were women you would have more 
wit than to stain the floor so foully. Hold not up her head 
so: the hair is false. I tell you yet again, Mary’s buried: 
she cannot come out of her grave. I fear her not: these 
cats that dare jump into thrones though they be fit only 
for men’s laps must be put away. Whats done cannot be 
undone. Out, I say. Fie! a queen, and freckled! 

Tue Man [shaking her arm] Mary, I say: art asleep? 

The Lady wakes; starts; and nearly faints. He catches 
her on his arm. 

Tue Lapy. Where am J? What art thou? 

Tue Man. I cry your mercy. I have mistook your 
person all this while. Methought you were my Mary: my 
mistress. 

Tue Lapy [outraged] Profane fellow: how do you dare? 

Tue Man. Be not wroth with me, lady. My mistress is 
a marvellous proper woman. But she does not speak so 
well as you. “All the perfumes of Arabia’! That was 
well said: spoken with good accent and excellent discretion. 

Tue Lapy. Have I been in speech with you here? 

THe Man. Why, yes, fair lady. Have you forgot it? 

THe Lapy. I have walked in my sleep. 

Tue Man. Walk ever in your sleep, fair one; for then 
your words drop like honey. 

Tue Lavy [with cold majesty} Know you to whom you 
speak, sir, that you dare express yourself so saucily? 

Tue Man [unabashed] Not I, not care neither. You 
are some lady of the Court, belike. To me there are but 
two sorts of women: those with excellent voices, sweet and 
low, and cackling hens that cannot make me dream. Your 
voice has all manner of loveliness in it. Grudge me not a 
short hour of its music. 

Tue Lapy. Sir: you are overbold. Season your admi- 
ration for a while with— 


146 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


Tue Man [holding up his hand to stop her] ‘‘Season your 
admiration for a while—”’ 

Tue Lavy. Fellow: do you dare mimic me to my face? 

Tue Man. Tis music. Can you not hear? When a 
good musician sings a song, do you not sing it and sing it 
again till you have caught and fixed its perfect melody? 
*‘Season your admiration for a while’: God! the history 
of man’s heart is in that one word admiration. Admira.- 
tion! [Taking up his tablets] What wasit? “‘Suspend your 
admiration for a space—”’ 

Tue Lapy. A very vile jingle of esses. I said “Season 
your— 

Tue Man [hastily] Season: ay, season, season, season. 
Plague on my memory, my wretched memory! I must een 
write it down. [He begins to write, but stops, his memory 
failing him]. Yet tell me which was the vile jingle? You 
said very justly: mine own ear caught it even as my false 
tongue said it. 

Tue Lavy. You said “for a space.’ JI said “‘for a 
while.” 

Tue Man. “‘For a while” [he corrects it]. Good! [Ar- 
dently} And now be mine neither for a space nor a while, 
but for ever. 

Tue Lapy. Odds my life! Are you by chance making 
love to me, knave? 

THe Man. Nay: tis you who have made the love: I but 
pour it out at your feet. I cannot but love a lass that sets 
such store by an apt word. Therefore vouchsafe, divine 
perfection of a woman—no: [ have said that before some- 
where; and the wordy garment of my love for you must be 
fire-new— 

Tue Lapy. You talk too much, sir. Let me warn you: 
I am more accustomed to be listened to than preached at. 

Tue Man. The most are hke that that do talk well. 
But though you spake with the tongues of angels, as in- 
deed you do, yet know that I am the king of words— 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 147 


Tue Lapy. A king, ha! 

Tue Man. No less. We are poor things, we men and 
women— 

Tue Lapy. Dare you call me woman? 

Tur Man. What nobler name can I tender vou? How 
else can I love you? Yet you may well shrink from the 
name: have I not said we are but poor things? Yet there 
is a power that can redeem us. 

Tue Lapy. Gramercy for your sermon, sir. I hope I 
know my duty. 

Tue Man. This is no sermon, but the living truth. 
The power I speak of is the power of immortal poesy. For 
know that vile as this world is, and worms as we are, you 
have but to invest all this vileness with a magical garment 
of words to transfigure us and uplift our souls til earth 
flowers into a million heavens. 

Tue Lapy. You spoil your heaven with your million. 
You are extravagant. Observe some measure in your 
speech. | , 

Tue Man. You speak now as Ben does. 

Tur Lapy. And who, pray, is Ben? 

Tue Man. A learned bricklayer who thinks that the 
sky is at the top of his ladder, and so takes it on him to re- 
buke me for flying. I tell you there is no word yet coined 
and no melody yet sung that is extravagant and majestical 
enough for the glory that lovely words can reveal. It is 
heresy to deny it: have you not been taught that in the 
beginning was the Word? that the Word was with God? 
nay, that the Word was God? 

Tur Lapy. Beware, fellow, how you presume to speak 
of holy things. The Queen is the head of the Church. 

Tur Man. You are the head of my Church when you ' 
speak as you did at first. “‘All the perfumes of Arabia’ 
Can the Queen speak thus? They say she playeth well 
upon the virginals. Let her play so to me; and I'll kiss 
her hands. But until then, you are my Queen; and [ll kiss 


148 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


those lips that have dropt music on my heart. [He puts his 
arms about her}. 

Tue Lapy. Unmeasured impudence! On your life, take 
your hands from me. 

The Dark Lady comes stooping along the terrace behind 
them like a running thrush. When she sees how they are 
employed, she rises angrily to her full height, and listens 
jealously. 

THe Man [unaware of the Dark Lady| Then cease to 
make my hands tremble with the streams of life you pour 
through them. You hold me as the lodestar holds the iron: 
I cannot but cling to you. We are lost, you and I: noth- 
ing can separate us now. 

THe Dark Lapy. We shall see that, false lying hound, 
you and your filthy trull. [Vath two vigorous cuffs, she 
knocks the pair asunder, sending the man, who ts unlucky 
enough to receive a righthanded blow, sprawling on the flags]. 
Take that, both of you! 

THE CLoakep Lapy [tn towering wrath, throwing off her 
cloak and turning in outraged majesty on her assailant] High 
treason! 

Tur Dark Lapy [recognizing her and falling on her 
knees in abject terror] Will: I am lost: I have struck the 
Queen. 

Tue Man [sitting up as majestically as his ignominious 
posture allows| Woman: you have struck WILLIAM 
SHAKESPEAR. 

QUEEN ELIzABETH [stupeni] Marry, come up!!! Struck 
William Shakespear quotha! And who in the name of all 
the sluts and jades and light-o’-loves and fly-by-nights that 
infest this palace of mine, may William Shakespear be? 

Tue Dark Lapy. Madam: he is but a player. Oh, I 
could have my hand cut ofi— 

QUEEN ExuizaBETH. Belike you will, mistress. Have 
you bethought you that I am like to have your head cut off 
as well? 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 149 


Tre Dark Lapy. Will: save me. Oh, save me. 

EvizABETH. Save you! A likely savior, on my royal 
word! J] had thought this fellow at least an esquire; for I 
had hoped that even the vilest of my ladies would not have 
dishonored my Court by wantoning with a _ baseborn 
servant. 

SHAKESPEAR [indignantly serambling to his feet] Base- 
born! JI, a Shakespear of Stratford! I, whose mother was 
an Arden! baseborn! You forget yourself, madam. 

EvizABETH [furious] S’blood! do I so? I will teach 
you— Sa 

Tue Dark Lapy [rising from her knees and throwing her- 
self between them] Will: in God’s name anger her no fur- 
ther. Itis death. Madam: do not listen to him. 

SHAKiSPEAR. Not were it een to save your life, Mary, 
not to mention mine own, will I flatter a monareh who for- 
gets what is due to my family. I deny not that my father 
was brought down to be a poor bankrupt; but twas his 
gentle blood that, was ever too generous for trade. Never 
did he disown his debts. Tis true he paid them not; but 
it 1s an attested truth that he gave bills for them; and 
twas those bills, in the hands of base hucksters, that were 
his undoing. 

EvizaBETH [grimly] The son of your father shall learn 
his place in the presenee of the daughter of Harry the 
Eighth. 

SHAKESPEAR [swelling with intolerant importance] Name 
not that inordinate man in the same breath with Strat- 
ford’s worthiest alderman. John Shakespear wedded but 
once: Harry Tudor was married six times. You should 
blush to utter his name. 

THe Dark Lapy ( Will: for pity’s 

crying out together sake— 

ELIZABETH Insolent dog— 

SHAKESPEAR [eutting them short] How know you that 
KKing Harry was indeed your father? 


150 ‘The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


ELIZABETH Zounds! Now by— [she stops to 

grind her teeth with rage}. 

THE Dark Lapy | She will have me whipped through 

the streets. Oh God! Oh God! 

SHAKESPEAR. Learn to know yourself better, madam. 
Iam an honest gentleman of unquestioned parentage, and 
have already sent in my demand for the coat-of-arms that 
is lawfully mine. Can you say as much for yourself? 

ELizABETH [almost beside herself] Another word; and I 
begin with mine own hands the work the hangman shall 
finish. 

SHAKESPEAR. You arenotrue Tudor: this baggage here 
has as good a right to your royal seat as you. What main- 
tains you on the throne of England? Is it your renownéd 
wit? your wisdom that sets at naught the craftie.t states- 
men of the Christian world? No. Tis the mere chance 
that might have happened to any milkmaid, the caprice of 
Nature that made you the most wondrous piece of beauty 
the age hath seen. [Elizabeth’s raised fists, on the point of 
striking him, fall to her side]. That is what hath brought 
all men to your feet, and founded your throne on the 1m- 
pregnable rock of your proud heart, a stony island in a 
sea of desire. There, madam, is some wholesome blunt 
honest speaking for you. Now do your worst. 

EizaBetu [with dignity] Master Shakespear: it is well 
for you that Iam a merciful prince. I make allowance for 
your rustic ignorance. But remember that there are 
things which be true, and are yet not seemly to be said (I 
will not say to a queen; for you will have it that I am 
none) but to a virgin. 

SHAKESPEAR [bluntly] It is no fault of mine that you are 
a virgin, madam, albeit tis my misfortune. 

Tue Dark Lapy [terrified again] In mercy, madam, hold 
no further discourse with him. He hath ever some lewd 
jest on his tongue. You hear how he useth me! calling me 
baggage and the like to your Majesty’s face. 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets =_151 


Euizasetu. As for you, mistress, I have yet to demand 
what your business is at this hour in this plaee, and how 
you come to be so concerned with a player that you strike 
blindly at your sovereign mm your jealousy of him. 

Tue Dark Lapy. Madam: as I live and hope for sal- 
vation— 

SHAKESPEAR [sardonically] Ha! 

Tne Dark Lapy [angrily] —ay, I’m as like to be saved 
as thou that believest naught save some black magie of 
words and verses—I say, madam, as I am a living woman 
I came here to break with him for ever. Oh, madam, if you 
would know what misery is, listen to this man that is more 
than man and less at the same time. He will tle you down 
to anatomize your very soul: he will wring tears of blood 
from your humiliation; and then he will heal the wound 
with flatteries that no woman can resist. 

SHAKESPEAR. Flatteries! [Aneeling] Oh, madam, I put 
my case at your royal feet. I confess to much. I have a 
rude tongue: Iam unmannerly: I blaspheme against the 
holiness of anointed royalty; but oh, my royal mistress, 
AM I a flatterer? 

EvizaBetu. I absolve you as to that. You are far too 
plain a dealer to please me. [Te rises gratefully]. 

Tue Dark Lavy. Madam: he is flattering you even as 
he speaks. 

EvizaBetu [a terrible flash in her eye| Ha! Is it so? 

SHAKESPEAR. Madam: she is jealous; and, heaven 
help me! not without reason. Oh, you say you are a mer- 
ciful prince; but that was eruel of you, that hiding of your 
royal dignity when you found me here. For how can I ever 
be content with this black-haired, black-eyed, black-avised 
devil again now that I have looked upon real beauty and 
real majesty? 

Tur Dark Lapy [wounded and desperate| He hath swore 
to me ten times over that the day shall come in England 
when black women, for all their foulness, shall be more 


152 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


thought on than fair ones. [To Shakespear, scolding at him] 
Deny it if thou canst. Oh, he is compact of lies and scorns. 
I am tired of being tossed up to heaven and dragged down 
to hel] at every whim that takes him. Iam ashamed to my 
very soul that I have abased myself to love one that my 
father would not have deemed fit to hold my stirrup— 
one that will talk to all the world about me—that will 
put my love and my shame into his plays and make me 
blush for myself there—that will write sonnets about me 
that no man of gentle strain would put his hand to. Iam 
all disordered: I know not what I am saying to your 
Majesty: I am of all ladies most deject and wretched— 

SHAKESPEAR. Ha! At last sorrow hath struck a note 
of music out of thee. “Of all ladies most deject and 
wretched.” [He makes a note of 7t]. 

THe DarKk Lapy. Madam: I implore you give me 
leave to go. I am distracted with grief and shame. I— 

EvizaBetu. Go [The Dark Lady tries to kiss her hand. 
No more. Go. [The Dark Lady goes, convulsed]. You 
have been cruel to that poor fond wretch, Master Shake- 
spear. 

SHAKESPEAR. I am not cruel, madam; but you know 
the fable of Jupiter and Semele. I could not help my 
lightnings scorching her. 

ELIzABETH. You have an overweening conceit of your- 
self, sir, that displeases your Queen. 

SHAKESPEAR. Oh, madam, can I go about with the 
modest cough of a minor poet, belittling my inspiration 
and making the mightiest wonder of your reign a thing of 
nought? I have said that “not marble nor the gilded 
monuments of princes shall outlive’? the words with 
which I make the world glorious or foolish at my will. 
Besides, I would have you think me great enough to 
grant me a boon. 

EvizaABETH. I hope it is a boon that may be asked of 
a virgin Queen without offence, sir. I mistrust your for- 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets = 153 


wardness; and I bid you remember that I do not suffer 
persons of your degree (if I may say so without offence 
to your father the alderman) to presume too far. 

SHAKESPEAR. Oh, madam, I shall not forget myself 
again; though by my life, eould I make you a serving 
wench, neither a queen nor a virgin should you be for so 
much longer as a flash of lightning might take to cross the 
river to the Bankside. But since you are a queen and will 
none of me, nor of Philip of Spain, nor of any other mortal 
man, I must cen contain myself as best I may, and ask you 
only for a boon of State. 

ExvizaBetu. A boon of State already! You are becom- 
ing a courtier like the rest of them. You lack advance- 
ment. 

SHakesPEAR. “‘Lack advancement.” By your Ma- 
jesty’s leave: a queenly phrase. [He 1s about to write i 
down]. 

EvizaBetu [striking the tablets from his hand] Your 
tables begin to anger me, sir. Iam not here to write your 
plays for you. 

SHAKESPEAR. You are here to inspire them, madam. 
For this, among the rest, were you ordained. But the boon 
I crave is that you do endow a great playhouse, or, if I 
may make bold to coin a scholarly name for it, a National 
Theatre, for the better instruction and gracing of your 
Majesty’s subjects. 

EvizaBetu. Why, sir, are there not theatres cnow on 
the Bankside and in Blackfriars? 

SHAKESPEAR. Madam: these are the adventures of 
needy and desperate men that must, to save themselves 
from perishing of want, give the sillier sort of people what 
they best like; and what they best like, God knows, is not 
their own betterment and instruction, as we well see by 
the example of the churehes, which must needs compel 
men to frequent them, though they be open to all without 
charge. Only when there is a matter of a murder, or a 


154 The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


plot, or a pretty youth in petticoats, or some naughty tale 
of wantonness, will your subjects pay the great cost of 
good players and their finery, with a little profit to boot. 
To prove this I will tell you that I have written two noble 
and excellent plays setting forth the advancement of 
women of high nature and fruitful industry even as your 
Majesty is: the one a skilful physician, the other a sister 
devoted to good works. I have also stole from a book of 
idle wanton tales two of the most damnable foolishnesses 
in the world, in the one of which a woman goeth in man’s 
attire and maketh impudent love to her swain, who pleas- 
eth the groundlings by overthrowing a wrestler; whilst, 
in the other, one of the same kidney sheweth her wit by 
saying endless naughtinesses to a gentleman as lewd as 
herself. I have writ these to save my friends from penury, 
vet shewing my scorn for such follies and for them that 
praise them by calling the one As You Like It, meaning 
that it is not as J like it, and the other Much Ado About 
Nothing, as it truly is. And now these two filthy pieces 
drive their nobler fellows from the stage, where indeed I 
cannot have my lady physician presented at all, she being 
too honest a woman for the taste of the town. Wherefore 
I humbly beg your Majesty to give order that a theatre 
be endowed out of the public revenue for the playing of 
those pieces of mine which no merchant will touch, seeing 
that his gain is so much greater with the worse than with 
the better. Thereby you shall also encourage other men 
to undertake the writing of plays who do now despise it 
and leave it wholly to those whose counsels will work little 
good to your realm. For this writing of plays is a great 
matter, forming as it does the minds and affections of men 
in such sort that whatsoever they see done in show on the 
stage, they will presently be doing in earnest in the world, 
which is but a larger stage. Of late, as you know, the 
Church taught the people by means of plays; but the 
people flocked only to such as were full of superstitious 


The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 155 


miracles and bloody martyrdoms; and so the Church, 
which also was just then brought imto straits by the 
policy of your royal father, did abandon and discounte- 
nance the art of playing; and thus it fell into the hands of 
poor players and greedy merchants that had their pockets 
to look to and not the greatness of this your kingdom. 
Therefore now must your Majesty take up that good work 
that your Church hath abandoned, and restore the art of 
playing to its former use and dignity. 

EvizaBetu. Master Shakespear: I will speak of this 
matter to the Lord Treasurer. 

SHAKESPEAR. Then am I undone, madam; for there 
was never yet a Lord Treasurer that could find a penny for 
anything over and above the necessary expenses of your 
government, save for a war or a salary for his own nephew. 

EvizaBetH. Master Shakespear: you speak sooth; yet 
cannot I in any wise mend it. I dare not offend my un- 
ruly Puritans by making so lewd a place as the playhouse 
a public charge; and there be a thousand things to be 
done in this London of mine before your poetry can have 
its penny from the general purse. I tell thee, Master Will, 
it will be three hundred years and more before my sub- 
jects learn that man cannot live by bread alone, but by 
every word that cometh from the mouth of those whom 
God inspires. By that time you and I will be dust beneath 
the feet of the horses, if indeed there be any horses then, 
and men be still riding instead of flying. Now it may be 
that by then your works will be dust also. 

SHAKESPEAR. They will stand, madam: fear nor for that. 

EvizaABetu. It may prove so. But of this I am certain 
(for I know my countrymen) that until every other coun- 
try in the Christian world, even to barbarian Muscovy 
and the hamlets of the boorish Germans, have its play- 
house at the public charge, England will never adventure. 
And she will adventure then only because it is her desire 
to be ever in the fashion, and to do humbly and dutifully 


156 ‘The Dark Lady of the Sonnets 


whatso she seeth everybody else doing. In the meantime 
you must content yourself as best you can by the playing 
of those two pieces which you give out as the most dam- 
nable ever writ, but which your countrymen, I warn you, 
will swear are the best you have ever done. But this I 
will say, that if I could speak across the ages to our de- 
scendants, I should heartily recommend them to fulfil 
your wish; for the Scottish minstrel hath well said that he 
that maketh the songs of a nation is mightier than he that 
maketh its laws; and the same may well be true of plays 
and interludes. [The clock chimes the first quarter. The 
warder returns on his round]. And now, sir, we are upon the 
hour when it better beseems a virgin queen to be abed than 
to converse alone with the naughtiest of her subjects. Ho 
there! Who keeps ward on the queen’s lodgings tonight? 

Tue Warper. I do, an’t please your majesty. 

EnizABETH. See that you keep it better in future. You 
have let pass a most dangerous gallant even to the very 
door of our royal chamber. Lead him forth; and bring 
me word when he is safely locked out; for I shall searce 
dare disrobe until the palace gates are between us. 

SHAKESPEAR [hissing her hand| My body goes through 
the gate into the darkness, madam; but my thoughts fol- 
low you. 

EvizaABetH. How! to my bed! 

SHAKESPEAR. No, madam, to your prayers, in which I 
beg you to remember my theatre. 

KurzaBetH. That is my prayer to posterity. Forget 
not your own to God; and so goodnight, Master Will. 

SHAKESPEAR. Goodnight, great Elizabeth. God save 
the Queen! 

EnizaBetu. Amen. 

Exeunt severally: she to her chamber: he, in custody of the 
warder, to the gate nearest Blackfriars. 


Ayot, St. LAWRENCE, 
20th June 1910. 


FANNY’S FIRST PLAY 
XAIT 


1911 








PREFACE TO FANNY’S FIRST PLAY 


Fanny’s First Puay, being but a potboiler, needs no pref- 
ace. But its lesson is not, I am sorry to say, unneeded. 
Mere morality, or the substitution of custom for conscience, 
was onee accounted a shameful and cynical thing: people 
talked of right and wrong, of honor and dishonor, of sin 
and grace, of salvation and damnation, not of morality 
and immorality. The word morality, if we met it im the 
Bible, would surprise us as much as the word telephone 
or motor car. Nowadays we do not seem to know that 
there is any other test of conduct except morality; and the 
result is that the young had better have their souls awak- 
ened by disgraee, capture by the police, and a month’s 
hard labor, than drift along from their cradles to their 
graves doing what other people do for no other reason than 
that other people do it, and knowing nothing of good and 
evil, of courage and cowardice, or indeed anything but 
how to keep hunger and eoncupiscence and fashionable 
dressing within the bounds of good taste except when their 
excesses can be concealed. Is it any wonder that I am 
driven to offer to young people in our suburbs the desper- 
ate advice: Do something that will get vou into trouble? 
But please do not suppose that I defend a state of things 
which makes such advice the hest that ean be given under 
the circunistances, or that I do not know how difficult it 
159 


160 Preface to Fanny’s First Play 


is to find out a way of getting into trouble that will com- 
bine loss of respectability with integrity of self-respect 
and reasonable consideration for other peoples’ feelings 
and interests on every point except their dread of losing 
their own respectability. But when there’s a will there’s 
a way. I hate to see dead people walking about: it is un- 
uatural. And our respectable middle class people are all 
as dead as mutton. Out of the mouth of Mrs Knox I have 
delivered on them the judgment of her God. 

The critics whom I have lampooned in the induction 
to this play under the names of Trotter, Vaughan, and 
Gunn will forgive me: in fact Mr Trotter forgave me be- 
forehand, and assisted the make-up by which Mr Claude 
King so successfully simulated his personal appearance. 
The critics whom I did not introduce were somewhat 
hurt, as I should have been myself under the same circum- 
stances; but I had not room for them all; so I can only 
apologize and assure them that I meant no disrespect. 

The concealment of the authorship, if a secret de Polichi- 
nelle can be said to involve concealment, was a necessary 
part of the play. In so far as it was effectual, it operated 
as a measure of relief to those critics and playgoers who 
are so obsessed by my strained legendary reputation that 
they approach my plays in a condition which is really one 
of derangement, and are quite unable to conceive a play 
of mine as anything but a trap baited with paradoxes, and 
designed to compass their ethical perversion and intellec- 
tual confusion. If it were possible, I should put forward 
all my plays anonymously, or hire some less disturbing 
person, as Bacon ts said to have hired Shakespear, to father 
my plays for me. 


har Fanny’s First Play was performed for the first time 
at the Little Theatre in the Adelphi, London, on the afternoon 
of Wednesday, April 19th 1911. 


FANNY’S FIRST PLAY 


INDUCTION . 


The end of a saloon in an old-fashioned country house 
(Florence Towers, the property of Count O’Dowda) has been 
curtained off to form a stage for a private theatrical perform- 
ance. <A footman in grandiose Spanish livery enters before 
the curtain, on tts O.P. side. 


Footman [announcing] Mr Cecil Savoyard. [Cecil Savo- 
yard comes in: a middle-aged man in evening dress and a fur- 
lined overcoat. He ts surprised to find nobody to receive him. 
So is the Footman]. Oh, beg pardon, sir: I thought the 
Count was here. He was when I took up your name. He 
must have gone through the stage into the library. This 
way, sir. [Ze moves towards the division in the middle of the 
curtains]. 

SAVOYARD. Half a mo. [The Footman stops]. When 
does the play begin? Half-past eight? 

Footman. Nine, sir. 

SAvoYARD. Oh, good, Well, will you telephone to my 
wife at the George that it’s not until nine? 

Foorman. Right, sir. Mrs Cecil Savoyard, sir? 

SAVOYARD. No: Mrs William Tinkler. Dont forget. 

Tue Footman. Mrs Tinkler, sir. Right, sir. [The 
Count comes in through the curtains]. Here is the Count, sir. 
[Announcing] Mr Cecil Savovard, sir. [He withdraws). 

161 


162 Fanny’s First Play 


Count O’Dowpa [A handsome man of fifty, dressed with 
studied elegance a hundred years out of date, advancing cor- 
dially to shake hands with his visitor] Pray excuse me, Mr 
Savoyard. I suddenly recollected that all the bookcases 
in the library were locked—in fact theyve never been 
opened since we came from Venice—and as our literary 
guests will probably use the library a good deal, I just 
ran in to unloek everything. 

SavoyarpD. Oh, you mean the dramatic critics. M’yes. 
I suppose theres a smoking room? 

Tuk Count. My study is available. An old-fashioned 
house, you understand. Wont you sit down, Mr Savoyard? 

SAVOYARD. Thanks. [They sit. Savoyard, looking at his 
host’s obsolete costume, continues] I had no idea you were 
going to appear in the piece yourself. 

Tue Count. ITamnot. I wear this costume because— 
well, perhaps I had better explain the position, if it 
interests you. 

SAVOYARD. Certainly. 

Tue Count. Well, you see, Mr Savoyard, I’m rather a 
stranger in your world. I am not, I hope, a modern man 
in any sense of the word. I’m not really an Englishman: 
my family is Irish: Ive lived all my life in Italy—in 
Venice mostly—my very title is a foreign one: I am a 
Count of the Holy Roman Empire. 

SAVOYARD. Where’s that? 

Tur Count. At present, nowhere, except as a memory 
and an ideal. [Savoyard inclines his head respectfully to the 
adeal]. But IT am by no means an idealogue. I am not 
content with beautiful dreams: I want beautiful realities. 

SAVOYARD. Hear, hear! I’m all with you there—when 
you ean get them. 

Tue Count. Why not get them? The difficulty is not 
that there are no beautiful realities, Mr Savoyard: the 
difficulty is that so few of us know them when we see 
them. We have inherited from the past a vast treasure of 





Fanny’s First Play 163 


beauty—of imperishable masterpieces of poetry, of paint- 
ing, of sculpture, of architecture, of music, of exquisite 
fashions in dress, in furniture, in domestic decoration. 
We can contemplate these treasures. We can reproduce 
many of them. We can buy a few inimitable originals. 
We can shut out the nineteenth century— 

SAVOYARD [correcting him] The twentieth. 

Tue Count. To me the century I shut out will always 
be the nineteenth century, just as your national anthem 
will always be God Save the Queen, no matter how many 
kings may sueceed. I found England befouled with in- 
dustrialism: well, I did what Byron did: I simply refused 
to live in it. You remember Byron’s words: “‘I am sure 
my bones would not rest in an English grave, or my clay 
mix with the earth of that country. I believe the thought 
would drive me mad on my deathbed could I suppose that 
any of my friends would be base enough to convey my 
carcase back to her soil. I would not even feed her worms 
if I could help it.” 

'~ Savoyarp. Did Byron say that? 

Tue Count. He did, sir. 

SAVOYARD. It dont sound like him. I saw a good deal 
of him at one time. 

Tue Count. You! But how is that possible? You are 
too young. 

SAvoyARD. I was quite a lad, of course. But I had a 
job in the original produetion of Our Boys. 

Tne Count. My dear sir, not that Byron. Lord 
Byron, the poet. 

Savoyarp. Oh, I beg your pardon. I thought you 
were talking of the Byron. So you prefer living abroad? 

Tie Count. I find England ugly and Philistine. Well, 
I dont live in it. I find modern houses ugly. I dont live 
in them: I have a palace on the grand canal. I find 
modern clothes prosaic. I dont wear them, except, of 
course, in the street. My ears are offended by the Coeck- 


164 Fanny’s First Play 


ney twang: I keep out of hearing of it and speak and 
listen to Italian. I find Beethoven’s music coarse and 
restless, and Wagner’s senseless and detestable. I do not 
listen to them. I listen to Cimarosa, to Pergolesi, to 
Gluck and Mozart. Nothing simpler, sir. 

SAVOYARD. It’s all right when you can afford it. 

Tue Count. Afford it! My dear Mr Savoyard, if you 
are a man with a sense of beauty you can make an earthly 
paradise for yourself in Venice on £1500 a year, whilst our 
wretched vulgar industrial millionaires are spending 
twenty thousand on the amusements of billiard markers. 
[ assure you I am a poor man according to modern ideas. 
But I have never had anything less than the very best 
that life has produced. It is my good fortune to have a 
beautiful and lovable daughter; and that girl, sir, has 
never seen an ugly sight or heard an ugly sound that I 
could spare her; and she has certainly never worn an ugly 
dress or tasted coarse food or bad wine in her life. She 
has lived in a palace; and her perambulator was a gondola. 
Now you know the sort of people we are, Mr Savoyard. 
You can imagine how we feel here. 

SAVOYARD. Rather out of it, eh? 

THE Count. Out of it, sir! Out of what? 

SAVOYARD. Well, out of everything. 

Tue Count. Out of soot and fog and mud and east 
wind; out of vulgarity and ugliness, hypocrisy and greed, 
superstition and stupidity. Out of all this, and in the 
sunshine, in the enchanted region of which great artists 
alone have had the secret, in the sacred footsteps of Byron, 
of Shelley, of the Brownings, of Turner and Ruskin. Dont 
you envy me, Mr Savoyard? 

SAVOYARD. Some of us must live in England, you know, 
just to keep the place going. Besides—though, mind you, 
I dont say it isnt all right from the-high art point of view 
and all that—three weeks of it would drive me melancholy 
mad. However, I’m glad you told me, because it explains 


Fanny’s First Play 165 


why it is you dont seem to know your way about much in 
England. I hope, by the way, that everything has given 
satisfaction to your daughter. 

Tue Count. She seems quite satisfied. She tells me 
that the actors you sent down are perfectly suited to their 
parts, and very nice people to work with. I understand 
she had some difficulties at the first rehearsals with the 
gentleman you call the producer, because he hadnt read 
the play; but the moment he found out what it was all 
about everything went smoothly. 

SavoyaRD. Havnt you seen the rehearsals? 

THE Count. Ohno. I havnt been allowed even to meet 
any of the company. All I can tell you is that the hero is 
a Frenchman [Savoyard is rather scandalized|: I asked her 
not to have an English hero. That is all I know. [Rue- 
fully] I havnt been consulted even about the costumes, 
though there, I think, I could have been some use. 

SAVOYARD [puzzled] But there arnt any costumes. 

Tue Count [seriously shocked] What! No costumes! 
Do you mean to say it is a modern play? 

SavoyarpD. I dont know: I didnt read it. I handed it 
to Billy Burjoyce—the producer, you know—and left it to 
him to select the company and so on. But I should have 
had to order the costumes if there had been any. There 
wernt. 

THe Count [smiling as he recovers from his alarm] I 
understand. She has taken the costumes into her own 
hands. She is an expert in beautiful costumes. I venture 
to promise you, Mr Savoyard, that what you are about to 
see will be like a Louis Quatorze ballet painted by Watteau. 
The heroine will be an exquisite Columbine, her lover a 
dainty Harlequin, her father a picturesque Pantaloon, 
and the valet who hoodwinks the father and brings about 
the happiness of the lovers a grotesque but perfectly taste- 
ful Punchinello or Mascarille or Sganarelle. 

SavoyarpD. [I see. That makes three men; and the 


166 Fanny’s First Play 


clown and policeman will make five. Thats why you 
wanted five men in the company. 

Tue Count. My dear sir, you dont suppose I mean that 
vulgar, ugly, silly, senseless, malicious and destructive 
thing, the harlequinade of a nineteenth century English 
Christmas pantomime! What was it after all but a stupid 
attempt to imitate the success made by the genuis of 
Grimaldi a hundred years ago? My daughter does not 
know of the existence of such a thing. I refer to the grace- 
ful and charming fantasies of the Italian and French 
stages of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 

Savoyarpb. Oh, I beg pardon. I quite agree that harle- 
quinades are rot. Theyve been dropped at all smart 
theatres. But from what Billy Burjoyce told me I got 
the idea that your daughter knew her way about here, 
and had seen a lot of plays. He had no idea she’d been 
away in Venice all the time. 

Tue Count. Oh, she has not been. I should have 
explained that two years ago my daughter left me to com- 
plete her education at Cambridge. Cambridge was my 
own University; and though of course there were no 
women there in my time, I felt confident that if the at- 
mosphere of the eighteenth century still existed any- 
where in England, it would be at Cambridge. About 
three months ago she wrote to me and asked whether I 
wished to give her a present on her next birthday. Of 
course I said yes; and she then astonished and delighted 
me by telling me that she had written a play, and that the 
present she wanted was a private performance of it with 
real actors and real critics. 

SaAvoyaRD. Yes: thats what staggered me. It was 
easy enough to engage a company for a private perform- 
ance: it’s done often enough. But the notion of having 
critics was new. I hardly knew how to set about it. They 
dont expect private engagements; and so they have no 
agents. Besides, I didnt know what to offer them. I 


Fanny’s First Play 167 


knew that they were cheaper than actors, because they 
get long engagements: forty years sometimes; but thats 
no rule fora single job. Then theres such a lot of them: 
on first nights they run away with all your stalls: you 
cant find a decent place for your own mother. It would 
have cost a fortune to bring the lot. 

Tur Count. Of course I never dreamt of having them 
all. Only a few first-rate representative men. 

Savorarb. Just so. All you want is a few sample 
opinions. Out of a hundred notices you wont find more 
than four at the outside that say anything different. Well, 
Ive got just the right four for you. And what do you 
think it has cost me? 

Tur Count [shrugging his shoulders] I cannot guess. 

Savoyarp. Ten guineas, and expenses. I had to give 
Flawner Bannal ten. He wouldnt come for less; and he 
asked fifty. I had to give it, because if we hadnt had him 
we might just as well have had nobody at all. 

Tue Count. But what about the others, if Mr Flan- 
nel— 

Savoyarp [shocked] Flawner Bannal. 

Tur Count.—if Mr Bannal got the whole ten? 

Savoyarb. Oh, I managed that. As this is a high-class 
sort of thing, the first man I went for was Trotter. 

Tue Count. Oh indeed. I am very glad you have 
seeured Mr Trotter. I have read his Playful Impressions. 

SavovaARpD. Well, I was rather in a funk about him. 
Hes not exactly what I call approachable; and he was a 
bit stand-off at first. But when I explained and told him 
your daughter— 

Tue Count [interrupting tn alarm| You did not say 
that the play was by her, I hope? 

Savoyarp. No: thats been kept a dead secret. I just 
said your daughter has asked for a real play with a real 
author and a real eritic and all the rest of it. The moment 
I mentioned the daughter [I had him. He has a daughter 


168 Fanny’s First Play 


of his own. Wouldnt hear of payment! Offered to come 
- just to please her! Quite human. I was surprised. 

Tue Count. Extremely kind of him. 

SAVOYARD. Then I went to Vaughan, because he does 
music as well as the drama: and you said you thought 
there would be music. [ told him Trotter would feel 
lonely without him; so he promised like a bird. Then I 
thought youd like one of the latest sort: the chaps that 
go for the newest things and swear theyre oldfashioned. 
So I nailed Gilbert Gunn. The four will give you a repre- 
sentative team. By the way [looking at his watch] theyll 
be here presently. 

Tue Count. Before they come, Mr Savoyard, could 
you give me any hints about them that would help me to 
make a little conversation with them? I am, as you said, 
rather out of it in England; and I might unwittingly say 
something tactless. 

SAVOYARD. Well, let me see. As you dont like English 
people, I dont know that youll get on with Trotter, be- 
cause hes thoroughly English: never happy except when 
hes in Paris, and speaks French so unnecessarily well that 
everybody there spots him as an Englishman the moment 
he opens his mouth. Very witty and all that. Pretends 
to turn up his nose at the theatre and says people make 
too much fuss about art [the Count is extremely indig- 
nant]. But thats only his modesty, because art is his own 
line, you understand. Mind you dont chaff him about 
Aristotle. 

Tue Count. Why should I chaff him about Aristotle? 

SAVOYARD. Well, I dont know; but its one of the recog- 
nized ways of chaffing him. However, youll get on with 
him all right: hes a man of the world and a man of sense. 
The one youll have to be careful about is Vaughan. 

Tue Count. In what way, may I ask? 

SAVOYARD. Well, Vaughan has no sense of humor; and 
if you joke with him he’ll think youre insulting him on 


Fanny’s First Play 169 


purpose. Mind: it’s not that he doesnt see a joke: he 
does; and it hurts him. A comedy scene makes him sore 
all over: he goes away black and blue, and pitches into the 
play for all hes worth. 

Tur Count. But surely that is a very serious defect in 
a man of his profession? 

SAVOYARD. Yes it is, and no mistake. But Vaughan is 
honest, and dont care a brass farthing what he says, or 
whether it pleases anybody or not; and you must have 
one man of that sort to say the things that nobody else 
will say. 

Tue Count. It seems to me to carry the principle of 
division of labor too far, this keeping of the honesty and 
the other qualities in separate compartments. What is 
Mr Gunn’s speciality, if I may ask? 

SAVOYARD. Gunn is one of the intellectuals. 

Tue Count. But arnt they all intellectuals? 

SAVOYARD. Lord! no: heaven forbid! You must be 
careful what you say about that: I shouldnt like anyone 
to call me an Intellectual: I dont think any Englishman 
would! They dont count really, you know; but still it’s 
rather the thing to have them. Gunn is one of the young 
intellectuals: he writes plays himself. Hes useful because 
he pitches into the older intellectuals who‘are standing in 
his way. But you may take it from me that none of these 
chaps really matter. Flawner Bannal’s your man. Bannal 
really represents the British playgoer. When he likes a 
thing, you may take your oath there are a hundred thou- 
sand people in London thatll like it if they can only be 
got to know about it. Besides, Bannal’s knowledge of the 
theatre is an inside knowledge. We know him; and he 
knows us. He knows the ropes: he knows his way about: 
he knows what hes talking about. 

Tue Count [with a little sigh] Age and experience, I 
suppose? 

Savoyarp. Age! I should put him at twenty at the 


170 Fanny’s First Play 


very outside, myself. It’s not an old man’s job after all, 
is tt? Bannal may not ride the hterary high horse like 
Trotter and the rest; but Pd take his opinion before any 
other in London. Hes the man m the street; and thats 
what you want. 

THe Count. I am almost sorry you didnt give the 
gentleman his full terms. I should not have grudged the 
fifty guineas for a sound opinion. He may feel shabbily 
treated. 

SAVOYARD. Well, let him. It was a bit of side, his ask- 
ing fifty. After all, what is he? Only a pressman. Jolly 
good business for him to earn ten guineas: hes done the 
same job often enough for half a quid, I expect. 

Fanny O’Dowda comes precipitately through the eurtains, 
excited and nervous. <A girl of nineteen in a dress synchron- 
ous with her father’s. 

Fanny. Papa, papa, the critics have come. And one 
of them has a cocked hat and sword like a—I[she notices 
Savoyard| Ch, I beg your pardon. 

THE Count. This is Mr Savoyard, your impresario, my 
dear. 

Fanny [shaking hands] How do you do? 

SAVOYARD. Pleased to meet you, Miss O’Dowda. The 
cocked hat is all right. Trotter is a member of the new 
Academic Committee. He induced them to go in for a 
uniform like the French Academy; and I asked him to 
wear it. 

THE FoormMan [annonncing| Mr Trotter, Mr Vaughan, 
Mr Gunn, Mr Flawner Bannal. [The four critics enter. 
Trotter wears a diplomatic dress, with sword and three- 
cornered hat. His age is about 50. Vaughan is 40. Gunn 
7s 30. Flawner Bannal is 20 and is quite unlike the others. 
They can be classed at sight as professional men: Bannal is 
obviously one of those unemployables of the business class who 
manage to pick up a living by a sort of courage which gives 
him cheerfulness, conviviality, and bounce, and is helped out 


Fanny’s First Play 171 


positively by a slight turn for writing, and negatively by a 
confortable ignorance and laek of intuition whieh hides from 
him all the dangers and disgraces that keep men of finer per- 
ception in cheek. The Count approaches them hospitably}. 

SAVOYARD. Count O’Dowda, genilemen. Mr Trotter. 

Trotter [looking at the Count’s costume] Have I the 
pleasure of meeting a confrére? 

Tue Count. No, sir: I have no right to my costume 
except the right of a lover of the arts to dress myself 
handsomely. You are most welcome, Mr ‘Trotter. 
[Trotter bows in the French manner]. 

SAVOYARD. Mr Vaughan. 

Tue Count. How do you do, Mr Vaughan? 

VAUGHAN. Quite well, thanks. 

SAVOYARD. Mr Gunn. 

Tue Count. Delighted to make your acquaintance, Mr 
Gunn. 

Gunn. Very pleased. 

SAVOYARD. Mr Flawner Bannal. 

Tue Count. Very kind of you to come, Mr Bannal. 

BannaL. Dont mention it. 

Tue Count. Gentlemen, my daughter. [They all bow]. 
We are very greatly indebted to you, gentlemen, for so 
kindly indulging her whim. [The dressing bell sounds. The 
Count looks at his watch|. Ah! The dressing kell, gentle- 
men. As our play begins at nine, I have had to put for- 
ward the dinner hour a little. May I shew you to your 
rooms? [fle goes out, followed by all the men, except Trotter, 
who, going last, is detained by Fanny]. 

Fanny. Mr Trotter: I want to say something to you 
about this play. 

Trotter. No: thats forbidden. You must not attempt 
to souffler the eritie. 

Fanny. Oh, I would not for the world try to influcnee 
your opinion. 

Trotter. But you do: you are influencing me very 


172 Fanny’s First Play 


shockingly. You invite me to this charming house, where 
I’m about to enjoy a charming dinner. And just before 
the dinner Pm taken aside by a charming young lady to 
be talked to about the play. How can you expect me to 
be impartial? God forbid that I should set up to be a 
judge, or do more than record an impression; but my im- 
pressions can be influenced; and in this case youre in- 
flueneing them shamelessly all the time. 

Fanny. Dont make me more nervous than I am al- 
ready, Mr Trotter. If-you knew how I feel! 

Trotter. Naturally: your first party: your first appear- 
ance In England as hostess. But youre doing it beauti- 
fully. Dont be afraid. Every nuance is perfect. 

Fanny. It’s so kind of you to say so, Mr Trotter. But 
that isnt whats the matter. The truth is, this play is 
going to give my father a dreadful shock. 

Trotter. Nothing unusual in that, I’m sorry to say. 
Half the young ladies in London spend their evenings 
making their fathers take them to plays that are not fit 
for elderly people to see. 

Fanny. Oh, I know all about that; but you cant under- 
stand what it means to Papa. Youre not so innocent as 
he is. 

TROTTER [remonstrating] My dear young lady— 

Fanny. I dont mean morally innoeent: everybody who 
reads your articles knows youre as innocent as a lamb. 

Trotter. What! 

Fanny. Yes, Mr Trotter: Ive seen a good deal of life 
since I came to England; and I assure you that to me youre 
a mere baby: a dear, good, well-meaning, delightful, witty, 
charming baby; but still Just a wee lamb in a world of 
wolves. Cambridge is not what it was in my father’s time. 

Trotter. Well, I must say! 

Fanny. Just so. Thats one of our classifications in the 
Cambridge Fabian Society. 

Trotter. Classifications? I dont understand. 


Fanny’s First Play 173 


Fanny. We classify our aunts into different sorts. 
And one of the sorts is the “‘I must says.”’ 

Trotrer. I withdraw “I must say.” I substitute 
**Blame my cats!”’ No: I substitute “Blame my kittens!” 
Observe, Miss O’ Dowda: kittens. I say again in the teeth 
of the whole Cambridge Fabian Society, kittens. Imper- 
tinent little kittens. Blame them. Smack them. I guess 
what is on your conscience. This play to which you have 
lured me is one of those in which members of Fabian 
Societies instruct their grandmothers in the art of milking 
ducks. And you are afraid it will shock your father. Well, 
I hope it will. And if he consults me about it I shall 
recommend him to smack you soundly and pack you off 
to bed. 

Fanny. Thats one of your prettiest literary attitudes, 
Mr Trotter; but it doesnt take mein. You see, I’m much 
more conscious of what you really are than you are your- 
self, because weve discussed you thoroughly at Cambridge; 
and youve never discussed yourself, have you? 

Trorrer. [ —— 

Fanny. Of course you havnt; so you see it’s no good 
Trottering at me. 

TrottTer. Trottering! 

Fanny. Thats what we call it at Cambridge. 

Trotter. If it were not so obviously a stage cliché, I 
should say Damn Cambridge. As itis, I blame my kittens. 
And now let me warn you. If youre going to be a charming 
healthy young English girl, you may coax me. If youre 
going to be an unsexed Cambridge Fabian virago, I'll 
treat you as my intellectual equal, as I would treat a man. 

Fanny [adoringly| But how few men are your intel- 
lectual equals, Mr Trotter! 

Trotter. I’m getting the worst of this. 

Fanny. Oh no. Why do you say that? 

Trotrer. May:zI remind you that the dinner-bell will 
ring presently? 


174 Fanny’s First Play 


Fanny. What does it matter? We’re both ready. I 
havnt told you yet what I want you to do for me. 

Trotter. Nor have you particularly predisposed me to 
do it, except out of pure magnanimity. What is it? 

Fanny. I dont mind this play shocking my father mor- 
ally. It’s good for him to be shocked morally. It’s all 
that the young can do for the old, to shock them and keep 
them up to date. But I know that this play will shock 
him artistically; and that terrifies me. No moral consid- 
eration could make a breach between us: he would forgive 
me for anything of that kind sooner or later; but he never 
gives way on a point of art. I darent let him know that 
T love Beethoven and Wagner; andas to Strauss, if he heard 
three bars of Elektra, it’d part us for ever. Now what 
I want you to dois this. If hes very angry—if he hates 
the play, because it’s a modern play—will you tell him 
that it’s not my fault; that its style and construction, and 
so forth, are considered the very highest art nowadays; 
that the author wrote it in the proper way for repertory 
theatres of the most superior kind—you know the kind 
of plays 1 mean? 

Trotter [emphatically] I think I know the sort of 
entertainments you mean. But please do not beg a 
vital question by calling them plays. I dont pretend to 
be an authority; but I have at least established the fact 
that these productions, whatever else they may be, are 
certainly not plays. 

Fanny. The authors dont say they are. 

Trotter [warmly| I am aware that one author, who is, 
I blush to say, a personal friend of mine, resorts freely to 
the dastardly subterfuge of calling them conversations, 
discussions, and so forth, with the express object of evad- 
ing criticism. But I’m not to be disarmed by such tricks. 
I say they are not plays. Dialogues, if you will. Exhibi- 
tions of character, perhaps: especially the character of the 
author. Fictions, possibly, though a little decent reti- 


Fanny’s First Play 175 


eence as to introducing actual persons, and thus violating 
the sanctity of private life, might not be amiss. But plays, 
no. Isay NO. Not plays. If you will not concede this 
point I cant continue our, conversation. I take this se- 
riously. It’s a matter of principle. I must ask you, Miss 
O’Dowda, before we go a step further, Do you or do you 
not claim that these works are plays? 

Fanny. I assure you I dont. 

Trotter. Not in any sense of the word? 

Fanny. Not in any sense of the word. I loathe plays. 

Trotter [disappointed] That last remark destroys all 
the value of your admission. You admire these—these 
theatrieal nondescripts? You enjoy them? 

Fanny. Dont you? 

Trotter. Of course I do. Do you take me for a fool? 
Do you suppose I prefer popular melodramas? Have I 
not written most appreciative notices of them? But 
I say theyre not plays. Theyre not plays. I cant con- 
sent to remain in this house another minute if anything 
remotely resembling them is to be foisted on me asa 
play. 

Fanny. I fully admit that theyre not plays. I only 
want you to tell my father that plays are not plays now- 
adays—not in your sense of the word. 

Trotter. Ah, there you go again! In my sense of the 
word! You believe that my criticism is merely a personal 
impression; that— 

Fanny. You always said it was. 

TrotteR. Pardon me: not on this pomt. If you had 
been classically educated— 

Fanny. But I have. 

Trotter. Pooh! Cambridge! If you had been educated 
at Oxford, you would know that the definition of a play 
has been settled exactly and scientifically for two thousand 
two hundred and sixty years. When I say that these en- 
tertaininents are not plays, I dont mean in my sense of 


176 Fanny’s First Play 


the word, but in the sense given to it for all time by the 
immortal Stagirite. 

Fanny. Who is the Stagirite? 

Trotter [shocked] You dont know who the Stagirite 
was? 

Fanny. Sorry. Never heard of him. 

Trotter. And this is Cambridge education! Well, my 
dear young lady, I’m delighted to find theres something 
you don’t know; and I shant spoil you by dispelling an 
ignoranee which, in my opinion, is highly becoming to your 
age and sex. So we'll leave it at that. 

Fanny. But you will promise to tell my father that lots 
of people write plays just like this one—that I havnt 
selected it out of mere heartlessness? 

Trotter. I eant possibly tell you what I shall say to 
your father about the play until Ive seen the play. But 
Pll tell you what I shall say to him about you. I shall 
say that youre a very foolish young lady; that youve 
got into a very questionable set; and that the sooner he 
takes you away from Cambridge and its Fabian Society, 
the better. 

Ianny. It’s so funny to hear you pretending to be a 
heavy father. In Cambridge we regard you as a bel esprit, 
a wit, an Irresponsible, a Parisian Immoralist, trés chic. 

Trotter. I! 

Fanny. Theres quite a Trotter set. 

Trotter. Well, upon my word! 

Fanny. They go in for adventures and call you Aramis. 

Trotter. They wouldnt dare! 

Fanny. You always make sueh delicious fun of the 
serious people. Your insouciance— 

Trotter [frantic] Stop talking Freneh to me: it’s not 
a proper language for a young girl. Great heavens! how 
is 1t possible that a few innocent pleasantries should be so 
frightfully misunderstood? Ive tried all my life to be sin- 
eere and simple, to be unassuming and kindly. Ive lived 


Fanny’s First Play 177 


a blameless life. Ive supported the Censorship in the face 
of ridicule and insult. And now I’m told that I’m a centre 
of Immoralism! of Modern Minxism! a trifler with the most 
sacred subjects! a Nietzschean!! perhaps a Shavian!!! 

Fanny. Do you meau you are really on the serious side, 
Mr Trotter? 

Trotter. Of course I’m on the serious side. How dare 
you ask me such a question? 

Fanny. Then why dont you play for it? 

Trotter. I do play for it—short, of course, of making 
myself ridiculous. 

Panny. What! not make yourself ridiculous for the 
sake of a good cause! Oh, Mr Trotter. Thats vieux jeu. 

TROTTER [shouting at her] Dont talk French. I will not 
allow it. 

Fanny. But this dread of ridicule is so frightfully out 
of date. The Cambridge Fabian Society— 

Trotter. I forbid you to mention the Fabian Society 
to me. 

Fanny. Its motto is “ You cannot learn to skate without 
making yourself ridiculous.” 

Trotter. Skate! What has that to do with it? 

Fanny. Thats not all. It goes on, “The ice of life is 
slippery.” 

Trotrer. Ice of hfe indeed! You should be eating 
penny ices and enjoying yourself. I wont hear another 
word. 

The Count returns. 

THE Count. We’re all waiting in the drawing-room, my 
dear. Have you been detaining Mr Trotter all this time? 

Trotter. I’mso sorry. I must have just a little brush 
up: I— [Ile hurries out}. 

Tue Count. My dear, you should be in the drawing- 
room. You should not have kept him here. 

Fanny. [I know. Dont scold me: I had something im- 
portant to say to him. 


178 Fanny’s First Play 


Tue Count. I shall ask him to take you in to dinner. 

Fanny. Yes, papa. Oh, I hope it will go off well. 

Tur Count. Yes, love, of course it will. Come along. 

Fanny. Just one thing, papa, whilst we’re alone. Who 
was the Stagirite? 

Tue Count. The Stagirite? Do you mean to say you 
dont know? 

Fanny. Havnt the least notion. 

Tue Count. The Stagirite was Aristotle. By the way, 
dont mention him to Mr Trotter. 

They go to the dining-room. 


THE PLAY 


ACT I 


In the dining-room of a house in Denmark: Hill, an elderly 
lady sits at breakfast reading the newspaper. [er chair is 
at the end of the oblong dining-table furthest from the fire. 
There is an empty chair at the other end. The fireplace is 
behind this chair; and the door is next the fireplace, between 
at and the corner. An arm-chair stands beside the coal- 
scuttle. In the middle of the back wall is the sideboard, par- 
allel to the table. The rest of the furniture ts mostly diuing- 
room chairs, ranged against the walls, and ineluding a baby 
rocking-chair on the lady’s side of the room. The lady is a 
placid person. Her husband, Mr Robin Gilbey, not at all 
placid, bursts violently into the room with a letter in his hand. 


GILBEY [grinding his teeth] This is a nice thing. This 
is a b— 

Mrs Gi.pey [cutting him short] Leave it at that, please. 
Whatever it is, bad language wont make it better. 

GILBEY [bitterly] Yes, put me in the wrong as usual. 
Take your boy’s part against me. [le flings himself into 
the empty chair opposite her). 

Mrs Gitpey. When he does anything right, hes your 
son. When he does anything wrong hes mine. Have you 
any news of him? 

GILBEY. Ive a good mind not to tell you. 

179 


180 Fanny’s First Play Act I 


Mrs Gitpey. Then dont. I suppose hes been found. 
Thats a comfort, at all events. 

GiLtBEY. No, he hasnt been found. The boy may be at 
the bottom of the river for all you care. [Yoo agitated to 
sit quietly, he rises and paces the room distractedly]. 

Mrs Gitpey. Then what have you got in your hand? 

GILBEY. Ive a letter from the Monsignor Grenfell. 
From New York. Dropping us. Cutting us. [Turning 
fiercely on her| Thats a nice thing, isnt it? 

Mrs Gintpey. What for? 

GILBEY [flinging away towards his chair! How do I know 
what for? 

Mrs Giupery. What does he say? 

GILBEY [sitting down and grumblingly adjusting his spec- 
tacles!| This is what he says. ‘“‘My dear Mr Gilbey: The 
news about Bobby had to follow me across the Atlantic: 
it did not reach me until to-day. I am afraid he is incor- 
rigible. My brother, as you may imagime, feels that this 
last escapade has gone beyond the bounds; and f think, 
myself, that Bobby ought to be made to feel that such 
scrapes involve a certain degree of reprobation.’” ‘“‘As 
you may imagine”! And we know no more about it than 
the babe unborn. 

Mrs Gitpey. What else does he say? 

GiLBEY. “‘I think my brother must have been just a 
little to blame himself; so, between ourselves, I shall, 
with due and impressive formality, forgive Bobby later 
on; but for the present I think it had better be understood 
that he is in disgrace, and that we are no longer on visit- 
ing terms. As ever, yours sincerely.” [His agitation mas- 
ters him again| Thats a nice slap in the face to get froma 
man in his position! This is what your son has brought 
on me. 

Mrs Gitpey. Well, I think it’s rather a nice letter. 
He as good as tells you hes only letting on to be offended 
for Bobby’s good. 


Act I Fanny’s First Play 181 


GiuBey. Oh, very well: have the letter framed and 
hang it up over the mantelpiece as a testimonial. 

Mrs Ginprey. Dont talk nonsense, Rob. You ouglit to 
be thankful to know that the boy is alive after his dis- 
appearing like that for nearly a week. 

Ginpry. Nearly a week! A fortnight, you mean. 
Wheres your feelings, woman? It was fourteen days 
yesterday. 

Mrs Giteery. Oh, dont call it fourteen days, Rob, as if 
the boy was in prison. 

GinBEY. How do you know hes not in prison? It’s got 
on my nerves so, that I'd believe even that. 

Mrs Giupey. Dont talk silly, Rob. Bobby might get 
into a serape like any other lad; but he’d uever do any- 
thing low. 

Juggins, the footman, comes in with a card on a salver. 
He is a rather low-spirited man of thirty-five or more, of good 
appearance and address, and iron self-eommand. 

Juaains [presenting the salver to Mr Gilbey] Lady wishes 
to see Mr Bobby’s parents, sir. 

GILBEY [pointing to Mrs Gilbey] Theres Mr Bobby’s 
parent. I disown him. 

JuGGINS. Yes, sir. [He presents the salver to Mrs Gilbey). 

Mrs Gitpey. You mustnt mind what your master 
says, Juggins: he doesnt mean it. [She takes the card and 
reads it|. Well, 1 never! 

GinBeY. Whats up now? 

Mrs Ginsry |reading| “‘Miss D. Delaney. Darling 
Dora.”’ Just like that—in brackets. What sort of per- 
son, Juggins? 

GILBEY. Whats her address? 

Mrs Ginpty. The West Cireular Road. Is that a 
respectable address, Juggins? 

JucGins. A great many most respectable people live 
in the West Cireular Road, madam; but the address 1s 
not a guarantee of respeetability. 


182 Fanny’s First Play Act I 


GILBEY. So it’s come to that with him, has it? 

Mrs GrtBey. Dont jump to conclusions, Rob. How 
do you know? [To Juggins] Is she a lady, Juggins? 
You know what I mean. 

JuGGins. In the sense in which you are using the word, 
no, madam. 

Mrs Gitpey. Id better try what I can get out of 
her. [Yo Juggins] Shew her up. You dont mind, do 
you, Rob? 

GILBEY. So long as you dont flounce out and leave me 
alone with her. [He rises and plants himself on the hearth- 
rug). 

Juggins goes out. 

Mrs Gitpey. I wonder what she wants, Rob? 

GiLBEY. If she wants money, she shant have it. Nota 
farthing. A nice thing, everybody seeing her on our 
doorstep! Ifit wasnt that she may tell us something about 
the lad, ?'d have Juggins put the hussy into the street. 

JuGGINS [returning and announcing] Miss Delaney. [He 
waits for express orders before placing a chair for this 
visitor]. 

Miss Delaney comes in. She vrs a young lady of hilarious 
disposition, very tolerable good looks, and killing clothes. 
She 7s so affable and confidential that tt is very difficult to keep 
her at a distance by any process short of flinging her out of the 
house. 

Dora [plunging at once into privileged intimacy and into 
the middle of the room| How d’ye do, both. Pm a friend of 
Bobby’s. He told me all about you once, in a moment of 
confidence. Of course he never let on who he was at the 
police court. 

GILBEY. Police court! 

Mrs Gitpey [looking apprehensively at Juggins] Tch—! 
Juggins: a chair. 

Dora. Oh, Ive let it out, have I! [Contemplating Jug- 
gins approvingly as he places a chair for her between the 


Act I Fanny’s First Play 183 


table and the sideboard| But hes the right sort: I ean see 
that. [Buttonholing him| You wont let on downstairs, 
old man, will you? 

JucGins. The family ean rely on my absolute discre- 
tion. [le withdraws}. 

Dora [sitting down genteelly) I dont know what youll 
say to me: you know I really have no right to come here; 
but then what wasI todo? You know Holy Joe, Bobby’s 
tutor, dont you? But of course you do. 

GILBEY [with dignity| I know Mr Joseph Grenfell, the 
brother of Monsignor Grenfell, if it is of him you are 
speaking. 

Dora [wide-eyed and much amused] No!!! You dont 
tell me that old geezer has a brother a Monsignor! And 
youre Catholies! And I never knew it, though Ive known 
Bobby ever so long! But of course the last thing you find 
out about a person is their religion, isnt it? 

Mrs Ginpey. We’re not Catholies. But when the 
Samuelses got an Archdeaeon’s son to form their boy’s 
mind, Mr Gilbey thought Bobby ought to have a ehance 
too. And the Monsignor is a eustomer. Mr Gilbey eon- 
sulted him about Bobby; and he reeommended a brother 
of his that was more sinned against than sinning. 

GiLBEy [on tenterhooks| She dont want to hear about 
that, Maria. [Zo Dora] Whats your business? 

Dora. I’m afraid it was all my fault. 

GitBpeY. What wasall your fault? I’m half distraeted. 
I dont know what has happened to the boy: hes been 
lost these fourteen days— 

Mrs Giispey. A fortnight, Rob. 

GILBEY. —and not a word have we heard of him sinee. 

Mrs GiuBey. Dont fuss, Rob. 

GiILBEy [yelling] I will fuss. Youve no feeling. You 
dont eare what beeomes of the lad. [Ie sits down savagely]. 

Dora [soothingly] Youve been anxious about him. Of 
course. How thoughtless of me not to begin by telling 


184 Fanny’s First Play Act I 


you hes quite safe. Indeed hes in the safest place in the 
world, as one may say: safe under lock and key. 

GILBEY [horrified, piiiable] Oh my— [his breath fails 
him]. Do you mean that when he was in the police court 
he was in the dock? Oh, Maria! Oh, great Lord! What 
has he done? What has he got for it? [Desperate] Will 
you tell me or will you see me go mad on my own carpet? 

Dora [sweetly| Yes, old dear— 

Mrs Gi.pey [starting at the familiarity] Well! 

Dora [continuing] Tl tell you: but dont you worry: 
hes all right. I came out myself this morning: there 
was such a crowd! and a band! they thought I was a 
suffragette: only fancy! You see it was like this. Holy 
Joe got talking about how he’d been a champion sprinter 
at college. 

Mrs Giupey. A what? 

Dora. A sprinter. He said he was the fastest hundred 
yards runner in England. We were all in the old cowshed 
that night. 

Mrs Gitprey. What old cowshed? 

GILBEY [groaning] Oh, get on. Get on. 

Dora. Oh, of course you wouldnt know. How silly of 
me! It’s a rather go-ahead sort of music hall in Stepney. 
We call it the old cowshed. 

Mrs Gitpey. Does Mr Grenfell take Bobby to music 
halls? 

Dora. No. Bobby takes him. But Holy Joe likes it: 
fairly laps it up like a kitten, poor old dear. Well, Bobby 
says to me, “ Darling—”’ 

Mrs Gitsey [placidly] Why does he call you Darling? 

Dora. Oh, everybody calls me Darling: it’s a sort of 
name Ive got. Darling Dora, you know. Well, he says, 
** Darling, if you can get Holy Joe to sprintahundred yards, 
(ll stand you that squiffer with the gold keys.” 

Mrs Gitpev. Does he call his tutor Holy Joe to his face 
[Gilbey clutches at his hair in his impatiencc}. 


Act I Fanny’s First Play 185 


Dora. Well, what would he call him? After all, Holy 
Joe is Holy Joe; and boys will be boys. 

Mrs GitBey. Whats a squiffer? 

Dora. Oh, of course: excuse my vulgarity: a concer- 
tina. Theres one in a shop in Green Street, ivory inlaid, 
with gold keys and Russia leather bellows; and Bobby 
knew I hankered after it; but he couldnt afford it, poor 
lad, though I knew he just longed to give it to me. 

GitBey. Maria: if you keep interrupting with silly 
questions, I shall go out of my senses. Heres the boy in 
gaol and me disgraced for ever; and all you care to know is 
what a squiffer is. 

Dora. Well, remember it has gold keys. The man 
wouldnt take a penny less than £15 for it. It was a 
presentation one. 

GILBEY [shouting at her} Wheres my son? Whats hap- 
pened to my son? Will you tell me that, and stop cack- 
ling about your squiffer? 

Dora. Oh, aint we impatient! Well, it does you credit, 
old dear. And you neednt fuss: theres no disgrace. Bobby 
behaved like a perfect gentleman. Besides, it was all my 
fault. [ll own it: ITtook too much champagne. I was not 
what you might call drunk; but I was bright, and a little 
beyond myself; and—Ill confess it—I wanted to shew 
off before Bobby, because he was a bit taken by a woman 
on the stage; and she was pretending to be game for any- 
thing. You see youve brought Bobby up too strict; and 
when he gets loose theres no holding him. He does 
enjoy life more than any lad I ever met. 

GitbeyY. Never you mind how hes been brought up: 
thats my business. Tell me how hes been brought down: 
thats yours. 

Mrs Giupey. Oh, dont be rude to the lady, Rob. 

Dora. I’m coming to it, old dear: dont you be so head- 
strong. Well, it was a beautiful moonlight night; and we 
couldnt get a cab on the nod; so we started to walk, very 


186 Fanny’s First Play Act I 


jolly, you know: arm in arm, and dancing along, singing 
and all that. When we came into Jamaica Square, there 
was a young copper on point duty at the corner. I says to 
Bob: “Dearie boy: is it a bargain about the squiffer if I 
make Joe sprint for you?”’ “‘Anything you like, darling,” 
says he: “‘f love you.” I put on my best company man- 
ners and stepped up to the copper. “If you please, sir,”’ 
says I, “‘can you direct me to Carrickmines Square?”’ I 
was so genteel, and talked so sweet, that he fell to it like a 
bird. ‘“‘I never heard of any such Square in these parts,”’ 
he says. “*Then,” says I, “what a very silly little officer 
vou must be:”’; and I gave his helmet a chuck behind that 
knocked it over his eyes, and did a bunk. 

Mrs Gitpey. Did a what? 

Dora. A bunk. Holy Joe did one too all right: he 
sprinted faster than he ever did in college, I bet, the old 
dear. He got clean off, too. Just as he was overtaking me 
half-way down the square, we heard the whistle; and at 
the sound of it he drew away like a streak of lightning; 
and that was the last I saw of him. I was copped in the 
Dock Road myself: rotten luck, wasn’t it? I tried the 
innocent and genteel and all the rest; but Bobby’s hat 
done me in. 

' Gitpey. And what happened to the boy? 

Dora. Only fancy! he stopped to laugh at the copper! 
He thought the copper would see the joke, poor lamb. He 
was arguing about it when the two that took me came 
along to find out what the whistle was for, and brought me 
with them. Of course I swore I’d never seen him before in 
my life; but there he wasin my hat andI in his. Thecops 
were very spiteful and laid it on for all they were worth: 
drunk and disorderly and assaulting the police and all that. 
I got fourteen days without the option, because you see— 
well, the fact is, I’'d done it before, and been warned. 
Bobby was a first offender and had the option; but the 
dear boy had no money left and wouldnt give you away 


Act I Fanny’s First Play 187 


by telling his name; and anyhow he eouldnt have brought 
himself to buy himself off and leave me there; so hes doing 
his time. Well, it was two forty shillingses; and Ive only 
twenty-eight shillings in the world. Tf I pawn my clothes 
I shant be able to earn any more. So I cant pay the fine 
and get him out; but if youll stand £3 T'll stand one; and 
thatll do it. If youd like to be very kind and nice you 
eould pay the lot; but I cant deny that it was my fault; 
so I wont press you. 

GiLBeEy [heart-broken|] My son in gaol! 

Dora. Oh, cheer up, old dear: it wont hurt him: look 
at me after fourteen days of it; [Tm all the better for 
being kept a bit quiet. You mustnt let it prey on your 
mind. 

GitBEy. The disgrace of it will kill me. And it will 
leave a mark on him to the end of his life. 

Dora. Nota bit of it. Dont you be afraid: Ive edu- 
cated Bobby a bit: hes not the mollyeoddle he was when 
you had him in hand. 

Mrs Gitsey. Indeed Bobby is not a mollyeoddle. 
They wanted him to go in for singlestick at the Young 
Men’s Christian Association; but, of course, I couldnt 
allow that: he might have had his eye knocked out. 

GiLBeEY [to Dora, angrily] Listen here, you. 

Dora. Qh, aint we cross! 

GitBEey. I want none of your gaiety here. This is a 
respeetable household. Youve gone and got my poor 
innocent boy into trouble. It’s the like of you thats the 
ruin of the like of him. 

Dora. So you always say, you old dears. But you 
know better. Bobby came to me: I didnt come to him. 

GiLBEY. Would he have gone if you hadnt been there 
for him to go to? Tell me that. You know why he went 
to you, I suppose? 

Dora [charitably] It was dull for him at home, poor 
lad, wasnt it? 


188 Fanny’s First Play Act I 


Mrs Giupey. Ohno. I'm at home on first Thursdays. 
And we have the Knoxes to dinner every Friday. Mar- 
garet Knox and Bobby are as good as engaged. Mr Knox 
is my husband’s partner. Mrs Knox is very religious; 
but shes quite cheerful. We dine with them on Tuesdays. 
So thats two evenings pleasure every week. 

GILBEY [almost in tears| We done what we could for the 
boy. Short of letting him go into temptations of all sorts, 
he can do what he likes. What more does he want? 

Dora. Well, old dear, he wants me; and thats about 
the long and short of it. And I must say youre not very 
nice to me aboutit. Ive talked to him hke a mother, 
and tried my best to keep him straight; but I dont deny 
I like a bit of fun myself; and we both get a bit 
giddy when we're lighthearted. Him and me is a pair, 
Tm afraid. 

GiLtBEY. Dont talk foolishness, girl. How could you 
and he be a pair, you being what you are, and he brought 
up as he has been, with the example of a religious woman 
like Mrs Knox before his eyes? J cant understand how 
he could bring himself to be seen in the street with you. 
[Pitying himself) I havnt deserved this. Ive done my 
duty as a father. Ive kept him sheltered. [Angry with 
her| Creatures like vou that take advantage of a child’s 
Innocence ought to be whipped through the streets. 

Dora. Well, whatever I may be, 'm too much the lady 
to lose my temper; and I dont think Bobby would like me 
to tell you what I think of vou; for when I start giving 
people a bit of my mind I sometimes use language thats 
beneath me. But I tell you once for all I must have the 
money to get Bobby out; and if you wont fork out, Til 
hunt up Holy Joe. He might get it off his brother, the 
Monsignor. 

GinpEy. You mind your own coneerns. My solicitor 
will do what is right. Tl not have you paying my son’s 
fine as if you were anything to him. 


Act I Fanny’s First Play 189 


Dora. Thats right. Youll get him out today, wont 
you? 

GILBEY. It’s likely I'd leave my boy in prison, isnt it? 

Dora. I'd like to know when theyll let him out. 

GILBEY. You would, would you? Youre going to meet 
him at the prison door. 

Dora. Well, dont you think any woman would that 
had the feclings of a lady? 

GinBEy [bitterly] Qh yes: I know. Here! I must buy 
the lad’s salvation, I suppose. How much wili you take to 
clear out and let him go? 

Dora [pitying him: quite nice about it] What good would 
that do, old dear? There are others, you know. 

GiuBEY. Thats true. I must send the boy himself away. 

Dora. Where to? 

GiuBEY. Anywhere, so long as hes out of the reach of 
you and your like. 

Dora. Then I’m afraid youll have to send him out of 
the world, old dear. I’m sorry for you: I really am, 
though you mightnt believe it; and I think your feclings 
do you real credit. But I cant give him up just to let him 
fall into the hands of, people I couldnt trust, can I? 

GILBEY [beside himself, rising] Wheres the police? 
Wheres the Government? Wheres the Church? Wheres 
respectability and right reason? Whats the good of them 
if I have to stand here and see you put my son in your 
pocket as if he was a chattel slave, and vou hardly out of 
gaol as a common drunk and disorderly? Whats the 
world coming to? 

Dora. Itis a lottery, isnt it, old dear? 

Mr Gilbey rushes from the room, distracted. 

Mrs Ginbey [unruffled| Where did you buy that white 
lace? I want some to match a collaret of my own; and I 
cant get it at Perry and John’s. 

Dora. Knagg and Pantle’s: oue and feurpence. It’s 
machine hand-made. 


190 Fanny’s First Play Act I 


Mrs Gitpey. I never give more than one and tuppence. 
But I suppose youre extravagant by nature. My sister 
Martha was just like that. Pay anything she was 
asked. 

Dora. Whats tuppence to you, Mrs Bobby, after all? 

Mrs Giupey [correcting her} Mrs Gilbey. 

Dora. Of course, Mrs Gilbey. I am silly. 

Mrs Gitsey. Bobby must have looked funny in your 
hat. Why did you change hats with him? 

Dora. I dont know. One does, you know. 

Mrs Giupry. I never did. The things people do! I 
cant understand them. Bobby never told me he was 
keeping company with yon. His own mother! 

Dora [overcome] Excuse me: I cant help smiling. 

Juggins enters. 

Juceins. Mr Gilbey has gone to Wormwood Scrubbs, 
madam. 

Mrs Gitpey. Have you ever been in a police court, 
Juggins? 

JuGGINsS. Yes, madam. 

Mrs Giusey [rather shocked] I hope you had not been 
exceeding, Juggins. 

JucGins. Yes, madam, I had. I exceeded the legal limit. 

Mrs Giupey. Oh, that! Why do they give a woman a 
fortnight for wearing a man’s hat, and a man a month for 
wearing hers? 

Jucains. I didnt know that they did, madam. 

Mrs Giieey. It doesnt seem justice, does it, Juggins? 

JUGGINS. No, madam. 

Mrs GILBeEy [to Dora, rising| Well, good-bye. [Shaking 
her hand| So pleased to have made your acquaintance. 

Dora {standing up| Dont mention it. Pm sure it’s 
most kind of you to receive me at all. 

Mrs Giupey. I must go off now and order lunch. [She 
trots to the door}. What was it you called the concertina? 

Dora. A squiffer, dear. 


Act I Fanny’s First Play 191 


Mrs Giupey [thoughtfully| A squiffer, of course. Flow 
funny! [She goes out]. 

Dora [exploding into ecstasies of mirth} Oh my! isnt she 
an old love? How do you keep your faee straight? 

JuGGiIns. It is what I am paid for. 

Dora [confidentially] Listen here, dear boy. Your name 
isnt Juggins. Nobody’s name is Juggins. 

Juaeins. My orders are, Miss Delaney, that you are 
not to be here when Mr Gilbey returns from Wormwood 
Serubbs. 

Dora. That means telling me to mind my own business, 
doesnt it? Well, Pm off. Tootle Loo, Charlie Darling. 
[She kisses her hand to hin. and goes]. 


ACT II 


On the afternoon of the same day, Mrs Knox ts writing 
notes in her drawing-room, at a writing-table which stands 
against the wall. Anyone placed so as to see Mrs Knox's 
left profile, will have the door on the right and the window on 
the left, both further away than Mrs Knox, whose back is pre- 
sented to an obsolete upright piano at the opposite side of the 
room. The sofa is near the piano. There is a sinall table 
in the middle of the room, with some gilt-edged books and 
albums on tt, and chairs near tt. 

Mr Knox comes in almost furtively, a troubled man of fifty, 
thinner, harder, and uglier than his partner, Gilbey, Gilbey 
being a soft stoutish man with white hair and thin smooth 
skin, whilst Knox has coarse black hair, and blue jaws which 
no diligence in shaving can whiten. Mrs Knox is a plain 
woman, dressed without regard to fashion, with thoughtful 
eyes and thoughtful ways that make an atmosphere of peace 
and some solemnity. She is surprised to see her husband at 
home during business hours. 


Mrs Knox. What brings you home at this hour? Have 
you heard anything? 

Kwox. No. Have you? 

Mrs Knox. No. Whats the matter? 

Knox [sztting down on the sofa] I believe Gilbey has 
found out. 

Mrs Knox. What makes you think that? 

192 


Act II Fanny’s First Play 193 


Knox. Well, I dont know: I didnt like to tell you: you 
have enough to worry you without that; but Gilbey’s been 
very queer ever since it happened. I cant keep my mind 
on business as I ought; and I was depending on him. But 
hes worse than me. Hes not looking after anything; and 
he keeps out of my way. His manner’s not natural. He 
hasnt asked us to dinner; and hes never said a word about 
our not asking him to dinner, after all these years when 
weve dined every week as regular as clockwork. It looks 
to me as if Gilbey’s trying to drop me socially. Well, why 
should he do that if he hasnt heard? 

Mrs Knox. I wonder! Bobby hasnt been near us 
either: thats what I cant make out. 

IKknox. Oh, thats nothing. I told him Margaret was 
down in Cornwall with her aunt. 

Mrs Knox [reproachfully| Jo! [She takes her handker- 
chief from the writing-table and cries a little]. 

Knox. Well, I got to tell hes, aint I? You wont. 
Somebody’s got to tell em. 

Mrs Knox [putting away her handkerchief| It only ends 
in our not knowing what to believe. Mrs Gilbey told me 
Bobby was in Brighton for the sea air. Theres something 
queer about that. Gilbey would never let the boy loose 
by himself among the temptations of a gay place like 
Brighton without his tutor; and I saw the tutor in Ken- 
sington High Street the very day she told me. 

Kwox. If the Gilbeys have found out, it’s all over be- 
tween Bobby and Margaret, and all over between us and 
them. 

Mrs Knox. It’s all over between us and everybody. 
When a girl runs away from home hke that, people know 
what to think of her and her parents. 

Knox. She had a happy, respectable home 
thing— 

Mrs Knox [interrupting him] Theres no use going over 
it all again, Jo. If a girl hasnt happiness in herself, she 





every- 


194 Fanny’s First Play Act II 


wont be happy anywhere. Youd better go back to the 
shop and try to keep your mind off it. 

Knox [rising restlessly] I cant. I keep fancying every- 
body knows it and is sniggering about it. I’m at peace 
nowhere but here. It’s a comfort to be with you. It’s a 
torment to be with other people. 

Mrs Knox [going to him and drawing her arm through 
his] There, Jo, there! I’m sure I’d have you here-always 
if Lcould. But it cant be. God’s work must go on from day 
to day, no matter what comes. We must faee our trouble 
and bear it. 

Knox [wandering to the window arm in arm with her] 
Just look at the people in the street, going up and down as 
if nothing had happened. It seems unnatural, as if they 
all knew and didnt care. 

Mrs Knox. If they knew, Jo, thered be a crowd round 
the house looking up at us. You shouldnt keep thinking 
about it. 

Knox. I know I shouldnt. You have your religion, 
Amelia; and I’m sure I’m glad it comforts you. But it 
doesnt come to me that way. Ive worked hard to get a 
position and be respectable. Ive turned many a girl out 
of the shop for being half an hour late at night; and heres 
my own daughter gone for a fortnight without word or 
sign, except a telegram to say shes not dead and that 
we're not to worry about her. 

Mrs Knox [suddenly pointing to the street] Jo, look! 

Knox. Margaret! With a man! 

Mrs Knox. Run down, Jo, quick. Catch her: save her. 

Knox f[lingering] Shes shaking hands with him: shes 
coming across to the door. 

Mrs Knox [energetically] Do as I tell you. Catch the 
man before hes out of sight. 

Knox rushes from the room. Mrs Knox looks anxiously 
and excitedly from the window. Then she throws up the 
sash and leans out. Margarct Knox comes in, flustered and 


Act Il Fanny’s First Play 195 


annoyed. Sheis a strong, springy girl of erghteen, with large 
nostrils, an audacious chin, and a gaily resolute manner, 
even peremptory on occasions like the present, when she is 
annoyed. 

Marcaret. Mother. Mother. 

Mrs Knox draws in her head and confronts her daughter. 

Mrs Knox [sternly] Well, miss? 

MarcGaret. Oh, mother, do go out and stop father mak- 
ing a scene in the street. He rushed at him and said 
“Youre the man who took away my daughter” loud 
enough for all the people to hear. Everybody stopped. 
We shall have a crowd round the house. Do do some- 
thing to stop him. 

Knox returns with a good-looking young marine officer. 

Marearer. Oh, Monsieur Duvallet, I’m so sorry—so 
ashamed. Mother: this is Monsieur Duvallet, who has 
been extremely kind to me. Monsieur Duvallet: my 
mother. [Duvallet bows]. 

Knox. A Frenchman! It only needed this. 

MARGARET [much annoyed] Father: do please be com- 
monly civil to a gentleman who has been of the greatest 
service to me. What will he think of us? 

Duvatuet [debonatr] But it’s very natural. I under- 
stand Mr Knox’s feelings perfectly. [He speaks English 
better than Knox, having learnt tt on both sides of the Atlantic]. 

Knox. If Ive made any mistake I’m ready to apolo- 
gize. But I want to know where my daughter has been 
for the last fortnight. 

Duva.uet. She has been, I assure you, in a particu- 
larly safe place. 

Inox. Will vou tell me what place? I ean judge for 
myself how safe it was. 

Marcaret. Holloway Gaol. Was that safe enough? 

Knox anp Mrs Knox. Holloway Gaol! 

Knox. Youve joined the Suffragets! 

Marcaret. No. I wish I had. I could have had the 


196 Fanny’s First Play Act II 


same experience in better company. Please sit down, 
Monsieur Duvallet. [She sits between the table and the 
sofa. Mrs Knox, overwhelmed, sits at the other side of the 
table. Knox remains standing in the middle of the room]. 

DuvALLet [svtting down on the sofa] It was nothing. An 
adventure. Nothing. 

Marcaret fobdurately]) Drunk and assaulting the 
police! Forty shillings or a month! 

Mrs Knox. Margaret! Who accused you of such a 
thing? 

Marecaret. The policeman [I assaulted. 

Knox. You mean to say that you did it! 

MarcGarert. I did. I had that satisfaction at all events. 
I knocked two of his teeth out. 

Knox. And you sit there coolly and tell me this! 

MarGaret. Well, where do you want me to sit? Whats 
the use of saying things like that? 

Knox. My daughter in Holloway Gaol! 

Marcaret. All the women in Holloway are some- 
body’s daughters. Really, father, you must make up 
your mind to it. If you had sat in that cell for fourteen 
days making up your mind to it, you would understand 
that I'm not in the humor to be gaped at while youre try- 
ing to persuade yourself that it cant be real. These things 
really do happen to real people every day; and you read 
about them in the papers and think it’s all right. Well, 
theyve happened to me: thats all. 

Knox [feeble-foreible] But they shouldnt have hap- 
pened to you. Dont you know that? 

Marcaret. They shouldnt happen to anybody, I sup- 
pose. But they do. [Rising impatiently] And really I'd 
rather go out and assault another policeman and go back 
to Holloway than keep talking round and round it lke 
this. If youre going to turn me out of the house, turn me 
out: the sooner I go the better. 

DuVALLET [rising quiekly| That is impossible, mademoi- 


Act IT Fanny’s First Play 197 


selle. Your father has his position to consider. To turn 
his daughter out of doors would ruin him socially. 

Kwox. Oh, youve put her up to that, have you? And 
where did you come in, may I ask? 

Duva.uEtT. I came in at your invitation—at your 
amiable insistence, in fact, not at my own. But you need 
have no anxiety on my account. I was concerned in the 
regrettable incident which led to your daughter’s incarcera- 
tion. I got a fortnight without the option of a fine on the 
ridiculous ground that I ought to have struck the police- 
man with my fist. [ should have done so with pleasure had 
I known; but, as it was, I struck him on the ear with my 
boot—a magnificent moulinet, I must say—and was in- 
formed that I had been guilty of an act of cowardice, but 
that for the sake of the entente cordiale I should be dealt 
with leniently. Yet Miss Knox, who used her fist, got a 
month, but with the option of a fine. I did not know this 
until I was released, when my first act was to pay the fine. 
And here we are. 

Mrs Knox. You ought to pay the gentleman the fine, Jo. 

Knox [reddening] Oh, certainly. [He takes out some 
money}. 

DuvatuLet. Oh please! it does not matter. [Knox 
hands him two sovereigns]. If you linsist—[he pockets them] 
Thank you. 

MarGaret. I’m ever so much obliged to you, Monsieur 
Duvallet. 

Duva.uet. Can I be of any further assistance, made- 
moiselle? 

Marearet. I think you had better leave us to fight it 
out, if you dont mind. 

Duvatuet. Perfectly. Madame [bow]—Mademoisclle 
[bow]|—Monsieur [bow]—[He goes out). 

Mrs Knox. Dont ring, Jo. See the gentleman out 
yourself. 

Knox hastily sees Duvallet out. Mother and daughter sit 


198 Fanny’s First Play Act II 


looking forlornly at one another without saying a word. Mrs 
Knox slowly sits down. Margaret follows her example. 
They look at one another again. Mr Knox returns. 

Knox [shortly and sternly| Amelia: this is your job. 
[To Margaret] I leave you to your mother. JI shall have 
my own say in the matter when I hear what you have to 
say to her. [le goes out, solemn and offended]. 

MARGARET [with a bitter little laugh| Just what the 
Suffraget said to me in Holloway. He throws the job on 
you. 

Mrs Knox [reproachfully| Margaret! 

MARGARET. You know it’s true. 

Mrs Knox. Margaret: if youre going to be hardened 
about it, theres no use my saying anything. 

MarcGareEt. I’m not hardened, mother. But I cant talk 
nonsense about it. You see, it’s all real to me. Ive suf- 
fered it. Ive been shoved and bullied. Ive had my arms 
twisted. Ive been made scream with pain in other ways. 
Ive been flung into a filthy cell with a lot of other poor 
wretches as if I were a sack of coals being emptied into a 
cellar. And the only difference between me and the others 
was that I hit back. Yes I did. And I did worse. I 
wasnt ladylike. Icursed. I called names. I heard words 
that I didnt even know that I knew, coming out of my 
mouth just as if somebody else had spoken them. The 
policeman repeated them in court. The magistrate said 
he could hardly believe it. The policeman held out his 
hand with his two teeth in it that I knocked out. I said 
it was all right; that I had heard myself using those words 
quite distinctly; and that I had taken the good conduct 
prize for three years running at school. The poor old 
gentleman put me back for the missionary to find out who 
I was, and to ascertain the state of my mind. I wouldnt 
tell, of course, for your sakes at home here; and I wouldnt 
say I was sorry, or apologize to the policeman, or com- 
pensate him or anything of that sort. I wasnt sorry, 


Act II Fanny’s First Play 199 


The one thing that gave me any satisfaction was getting 
in that smaek on his mouth; and I said so. So the mis- 
sionary reported that [I seemed hardened and that no 
doubt I would tell who I was after a day in prison. Then 
I was senteneed. So now you see I’m not a bit the sort of 
girl you thought me. I’m not a bit the sort of girl I 
thought myself. And I dont know what sort of person you 
really are, or what sort of person father really is. I 
wonder what he would say or do if he had an angry brute 
of a policeman twisting his arm with one hand and rush- 
ing him along by the nape of his neek with the other. He 
eouldnt whirl his leg hke a windmill and knoek a police- 
man down by a glorious kiek on the helmet. Oh, if theyd 
all fought as we two fought we’d have beaten them. 

Mrs Knox. But how did it all begin? 

MarGareEt. Oh, I dont know. It was boat-race night, 
they said. 

Mrs Knox. Boat-race night! But what had you to do 
with the boat race? You went to the great Salvation 
Festival at the Albert Hall with your aunt. She put you 
into the bus that passes the door. What made you get 
out of the bus? 

Marecaret. I dont know. The meeting got on my 
nerves, somehow. It was the singing, I suppose: you 
know I love singing a good swinging hymn; and [I felt it 
was ridiculous to go home in the bus after we had been 
singing so wonderfully about elimbing up the golden stairs 
to heaven. J wanted more music—more happiness— 
more life. I wanted some comrade who felt as I did. I 
felt exaltea: it seemed mean to be afraid of anything: 
after all, what conld anyone do to me against my will? I 
suppose I was a little mad: at all events, [ got out of the 
bus at Pieeadilly Cireus, because there was a lot of light 
and excitement there. I walked to Leicester Square; and 
went into a great theatre. 


Mrs Knox [horrified] A theatre! 


200 Fanny’s First Play Act II 


MarGARET. Yes. Lots of other women were going in 
alone. I had to pay five shillings. 

Mrs Kwox [aghast] Five shillings! 

MarGaret [apologetically| It was a lot. It was very 
stuffy; and I didnt hke the people much, because they 
didnt seem to be enjoying themselves; but the stage was 
splendid and the musie lovely. I saw that Frenchman, 
Monsieur Duvallet, standing against a barrier, smoking 
a cigarette. He seemed quite happy; and he was nice 
and sailorlike. I went and stood beside him, hoping he 
would speak to me. 

Mrs Knox [gasps] Margaret! 

MAarGARrEtT [continuing] He did, just as if he had known 
me for years. We got on together like old friends. He 
asked me would I have some champagne; and I said it 
would cost too much, but that I would give anything for 
a dance. I longed to join the people on the stage and 
danee with them: one of them was the most beautiful 
dancer I ever saw. He told me he had come there to see 
her, and that when it was over we could go somewhere 
where there was daneing. So we went to a place where 
there was a band in a gallery and the floor cleared for 
dancing. Very few people danced: the women only wanted 
to shew off their dresses; but we danced and danced until 
alot of them jomed in. We got quite reckless; and we had 
champagne after all. [I never enjoyed anything so much. 
But at last it got spoilt by the Oxford and Cambridge 
students up for the boat race. They got drunk; and they 
began to smash things; and the police came in. Then it 
was quite horrible. The students fought with the police; 
and the police suddenly got quite brutal, and began to 
throw everybody downstairs. They attacked the women, 
who were not doing anything, and treated them just as 
roughly as they had treated the students. Duvallet got 
indignant and remonstrated with a policeman, who was 
shoving a woman though she was going quietly as fast as 


Act II Fanny’s First Play 201 


she could. The policeman flung the woman through the 
door and then turned on Duvallet. It was then that 
Duvallet swung his leg like a windmill and knocked the 
policeman down. And then three policemen rushed at 
him and carried him out by the arms and legs face down- 
wards. Two more attacked me and gave me a shove to 
the door. That quite maddened me. I just got in one 
good bang on the mouth of one of them. All the rest was 
dreadful. I was rushed through the streets to the police 
station. They kicked me with their knees; they twisted 
my arms; they taunted and insulted me; they called me 
vile names; and I told them what I thought of them, and 
provoked them to do their worst. Theres one good thing 
about being hard hurt: it makes you sleep. I slept in 
that filthy cell with all the other drunks sounder than I 
should have slept at home. I cant describe how I felt next 
morning: it was hideous; but the police were quite jolly; 
and everybody said it was a bit of English fun, and talked 
about last year’s boat-race night when it had been a great 
deal worse. I was black and blue and sick and wretched. 
But the strange thing was that I wasnt sorry; and I’m not 
sorry. And I dont feel that I did anything wrong, really. 
[She rises and stretches her arms with a large liberating 
breath] Now that it’s all over I’m rather proud of it; 
though I know now that I’m not a lady; but whether thats 
because we're only shopkeepers, or because nobody’s 
really a lady except when theyre treated like ladies, I 
dont know. [She throws herself into a corner of the sofa}. 
Mrs Knox [lost in wonder| But how could you bring 
yourself to do it, Margaret? I’m not blaming you: I only 
~ want to know. How could you bring yourself to do it? , 
MarGaret. I cant tell you. I dont understand it my- 
self. The prayer meeting set me free, somehow. I should 
never have done it if it were not for the prayer meeting. 
Mrs Knox [deeply horrified] Oh, dont say such a thing 
as that. I know that prayer can set us free; though you 


202 Fanny’s First Play Act II 


could never understand me when [ told you so; but it sets 
us free for good, not for evil. 

MarGcaret. Then I suppose what I did was not evil; 
or else I was set free for evil as well as good. As father 
says, you cant have anything both ways at once. When 
I was at home and at school I was what you call good; 
but I wasnt free. And when I got free I was what most 
people would call not good. But I see no harm in what 
I did; though I see plenty in what other people did to 
me. 

Mrs Knox. I hope you dont think yourself a heroine 
of romance. 

MarcGaret. Oh no. [She sits down again at the table). 
I’m a heroine of reality, if you call me a heroine at all. 
And reality is pretty brutal, pretty filthy, when you come 
to grips with it. Yet it’s glorious all the same. It’s so 
real and satisfactory. 

Mrs Knox. I dont like this spirit in you, Margaret. I 
dont like your talking to me in that tone. 

MarGareEt. It’s no use, mother. I dont care for you 
and Papa any the less; but I shall never get back to the old 
way of talking again. Ive made a sort of descent into hell— 

Mrs Knox. Margaret! Such a word! 

Maraaret. You should have heard all the words that 
were flying round that night. You should mix a little 
with people who dont know any other words. But when 
I said that about a descent into hell I was not swearing. 
I was in earnest, like a preacher. 

Mrs Knox. A preacher utters them in a reverent tone 
of voice. 

Marcaret. I know: the tone that shews they dont 
mean anything real to him. They usent to mean anything 
real to me. Now hell is as real to me as a turnip; and I 
suppose I shall always speak of it like that. Anyhow, 
Ive been there; and it seems to me now that nothing is 
worth doing but redeeming people from it. 


Act II Fanny’s First Play 203 


Mrs Knox. They are redeemed already if they choose 
to beheve it. 

MarGaret. Whats the use of that if they dont choose 
to believe it? You dont believe it yourself, or you wouldnt 
pay policemen to twist their arms. Whats the good of 
pretending? ‘Thats all our respectability is, pretending, 
pretending, pretending. Thank heaven Ive had it knocked 
out of me once for all! 

Mrs Knox |greatly agitated) Margaret: dont talk like 
that. I cant bear to hear you talking wickedly. I can 
bear to hear the children of this world talking vainly and 
foolishly in the language of this world. But when I hear 
you justifying your wickedness in the words of grace, it’s 
too horrible: it sounds like the devil making fun of reli- 
gion. Ive tried to bring you up to learn the happiness of 
religion. Ive waited for you to find out that happiness is 
within ourselves and doesnt come from outward pleasures. 
Ive prayed oftener than you think that you might be en- 
lightened. But if all my hopes and all my prayers are to 
come to this, that you mix up my very words and thoughts 
with the promptings of the devil, then I dont know what I 
shall do: I dont indeed: itll kill me. 

Marcaret. You shouldnt have prayed for me to be 
enlightened if you didnt want me to be enlightened. If 
the truth were known, I suspect we all want our prayers 
to be answered only by halves: the agreeable halves. Your 
prayer didnt get answered by halves, mother. Youve got 
more than you bargained for in the way of enlightenment. 
I shall never be the same again. I shall never speak in the 
old way again. Ive been set free from this silly little hole 
of a house and all its pretences. I know now that I am 
stronger than you and Papa. I havnt found that happi- 
ness of yours that is within yourself; but Ive found 
strength. For good or evil I am set free; and none of the 
things that used to hold me ean hold me now. 

Knox comes back, unable to bear his suspense. 


204 Fanny’s First Play Act Il 


Knox. How long more are you going to keep me wait- 
ing, Amelia? Do you think I’m made of iron? Whats the 
girl done? What are we going to do? 

Mrs Knox. Shes beyond my control, Jo, and beyond 
yours. I cant even pray for her now; for I dont know 
rightly what to pray for. 

Knox. Dont talk nonsense, woman: is this a time for 
praying? Does anybody know? Thats what we have 
to consider now. If only we can keep it dark, I don’t 
care for anything else. 

MarGarer. Dont hope for that, father. Mund: I'll tell 
everybody. It ought to be told. It must be told. 

Knox. Hold your tongue, you young hussy; or go out 
of my house this mstant. 

MarcGaret. I’m quite ready. [She takes her hat and 
turns to the door]. 

Knox [throwing himself in front of 7t]| Here! where are 
you going? 

Mrs Knox [rising] You mustnt turn her out, Jo! Pil 
go with her if she goes. 

Knox. Who wants to turn her out? But is she going to 
ruin us? To let everybody know of her disgrace and 
shame? To tear me down from the position Ive made for 
myself and you by forty years hard struggling? 

Marcaret. Yes: I’m going to tear it all down. It 
stands between us and everything. [ll tell everybody. 

Knox. Magsy, my child: dont bring down your father’s 
hairs with sorrow to the grave. Theres only one thing I 
care about in the world: to keep this dark. I’m your 
father. I ask you here on my knees—in the dust, so to 
speak—not to let it out. 

MarcGaret. [’ll tell everybody. 

Knox collapses in despair. Mrs Knox tries to pray and 
cannot. Margaret stands inflexible. 


ACT III 


Again in the Gilbeys’ dining-room. Afternoon. The table 
is not laid: it ts draped in its ordinary cloth, with pen and 
ink, an exercise-book, and school-books on it. Bobby Gilbey 
ts in the arm-chair, crouching over the fire, reading an tllus- 
trated paper. Heisa pretty youth, of very suburban gentility, 
strong and manly enough by nature, but untrained and unsat- 
isfaetory, his parents having imagined that domestic restric- 
tion is what they call “bringing up.” He has learnt nothing 
from it except a habit of evading it by deceit. 

He gets up to ring the bell; then resumes his crouch. Juggins 
answers the bell. 


Boppy. Juggins. 

JUGGINS. Sir? 

Bossy [morosely sarcastie] Sir be blowed! 

JUGGINS [cheerfully] Not at all, sir. 

Boppy. I’m a gaol-bird: youre a respectable man. 

Juccins. That doesnt matter, sir. Your father pays 
me to call you sir; and as I take the money, I keep my 
part of the bargain. 

Boxszsy. Would you call me sir if you wernt paid to do 
it? 

Juacins. No, sir. 

Bossy. Ive been talking to Dora about you. 

JuGcGins. Indeed, sir? 

Bossy. Yes. Dora says your name cant be Juggins, 

205 


206 _Fanny’s First Play Act III 


and that you have the manners of a gentleman. I always 
thought you hadnt any manners. Anyhow, your manners 
are different from the manners of a gentleman in my set. 

Jucains. They would be, sir. 

Bossy. You dont feel disposed to be communicative 
on the subject of Dora’s notion, I suppose. 

Juceins. No, sir. 

Bossy [throwing his paper on the floor and lifting his knees 
over the arm of the chair so as to turn towards the footman|] 
It was part of your bargain that you were to valet me a 
bit, wasnt it? 

JUGGINS. Yes, sir. 

Bossy. Well, can you tell me the proper way to get out 
of an engagement to a girl without getting into a row for 
breach of promise or behaving like a regular cad? 

Jucatns. No, sir. You cant get out of an engagement 
without behaving like a cad if the lady wishes to hold you 
to it. 

Bossy. But it wouldnt be for her happiness to marry 
me when I dont really care for her. 

Juccins. Women dont always marry for happiness, sir. 
They often marry because they wish to be married women 
and not old maids. 

Bossy. Then what am I to do? 

Jucains. Marry her, sir, or behave like a cad, 

Bossy [jumping up] Well, I wont marry her: thats flat. 
What-would you do if you were in my place? 

Juaetns. I should tell the young lady that I found I 
couldnt fulfil my engagement. 

Bossy. But youd have to make some excuse, you know. 
I want to give it a gentlemanly turn: to say Pm not 
worthy of her, or something like that. 

Juaerns. That is not a gentlemanly turn, sir. Quite 
the contrary. 

Bossy. I dont see that at all. Do you mean that it’s 
not exactly true? 


Act Lil Fanny’s First Play 207 


Juceins. Not at all, sir. 

Bossy. I can say that no other girl can ever be to me 
what shes been. That would be quite true, because our 
circumstanees have been rather exeeptional; and she'll 
imagine I mean I’m fonder of her than I ean ever be of 
anyone else. You see, Juggins, a gentleman has to think 
of a girl’s feelings. 

JuGGins. If you wish to spare her feelings, sir, you can 
marry her. If you hurt her feelings by refusing, you had 
better not try to get credit for considerateness at the same 
time by pretending to spare them. She wont like it. And 
it will start an argument, of which you will get the worse. 

Bossy. But, you know, I’m not really worthy of her. 

JuGcGcins. Probably she never supposed you were, sir. 

Bossy. Oh, I say, Juggins, you are a pessimist. 

JUGGINS [preparing to go| Anything else, sir? 

Bossy [querulously| You havnt been much use. [He 
wanders disconsolately across the room|. You generally put 
me up to the correct way of doing things. 

JuGGINS. I assure you, sir, theres no correct way of 
jilting. It’s not correct in itself. 

Bossy [hopefully] Dll tell you what. JIl say I cant 
hold her to an engagement with a man whos been in quod. 
Thatll do it. [He seats himself on the table, relieved and 
confident}. 

Jucains. Very dangerous, sir. No woman will deny 
herself the romantie luxury of self-sacrifice and forgiveness 
when they take the form of doing something agreeable. 
Shes almost sure to say that your misfortune will draw 
her closer to vou. 

Bossy. What a nuisanee! I dont know what to do. 
You know, Juggins, your cool simple-minded way of doing 
it wouldnt go down in Denmark [ill. 

JuGGins. I daresay not, sir. No doubt youd prefer to 
make it look like an act of self-sacrifice for her sake on 
your part, or provoke her to break the engagement her- 


208 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


self. Both plans have been tried repeatedly, but never 
with success, as far as my knowledge goes. 

Bossy. You havea devilish cool way of laying down 
thelaw. You know, in my class you have to wrap up 
things a bit. Denmark Hill isn’t Camberwell, you know. 

Juaains. I have noticed, sir, that Denmark Hill thinks 
that the higher you go in the social scale, the less sincerity 
is allowed, and that only tramps and riff-raff are quite 
sincere. Thats a mistake. Tramps are often shameless; 
but theyre never sincere. Swells—if I may use that con- 
venient name for the upper classes—play much more with 
their cards on the table. If you tell the young lady that 
you want to jilt her, and she calls you a pig, the tone of 
the transaction may leave much to be desired; but itll be 
less Camberwellian than if you say youre not worthy. 

Bossy. Oh, I cant make you understand, Juggins. The 
girl isnt a scullery-maid. I want to do it delicately. 

Juaceains. A mistake, sir, believe me, if you are not a 
born artist in that line.—Beg pardon, sir, I think I heard 
the bell. [He goes out]. 

Bobby, much perplexed, shoves his hands into his pockets, 
and comes off the table, staring disconsolately straight before 
him; then goes reluctantly to his books, and sits down to write. 
Juggins returns. 

JUGGINS [announcing] Miss Knox. 

Margaret comes in. Juggins withdraws. 

Mareare_et. Still grinding away for that Society of Arts 
examination, Bobby? Youll never pass. 

Bossy [rising] No: I was just writing to you. 

Marcaret. What about? 

Bossy. Oh, nothing. At least— How are you? 

MarGareEt [passing round the other end of the tabie and 
putting down on it a copy of Lloyd’s Weekly and her purse- 
bag) Quite well, thank you. How did you enjoy Brighton? 

Bossy. Brighton! I wasnt at— Oh yes, of course. 
Oh, pretty well. Is your aunt all right? 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 209 


MarcaretT. My aunt! Isupposeso. I havent seen her 
for a month. 

Bossy. I thought you were down staying with her. 

MarcGaret. Oh! was that what they told you? 

Bossy. Yes. Why? Werent you really? 

Marcarer. No. Ive something to tell you. Sit down 
and lets be comfortable. 

She sits on the edge of the table. He sits beside her, and 
puts his arm wearily round her waist. 

MarGaret. You neednt do that if you dont like, 
Bobby. Suppose we get off duty for the day, just to see 
what it’s like. 

Bossy. Off duty? What do you mean? 

MarGARET. You know very well what I mean. Bobby: 
did you ever care one little scrap for me in that sort of 
way? Dont funk answering: 7 dont care a bit for you— 
that way. 

Bossy [removing his arm rather huffily] I beg your par- 
don, [’'m sure. I thought you did. 

MarcaretT. Well, did you? Come! Dont be mean. 
Ive owned up. You can put it all on me if you like; but 
I dont believe you care any more than I do. 

Bossy. You mean weve been shoved into it rather by 
the pars and mars. 

MARGARET. Yes. 

Bossy. Well, it’s not that I dont care for you: in fact, 
no girl can ever be to me exactly what you are; but weve 
been brought up so much together that it feels more like 
brother and sister than—well, than the other thing, doesnt 
it? 

MarGcaretr. Just so. How did you find out the 
difference? 

Bossy [blushing] Oh, I say! 

Marcaret. I found out from a Frenchman. 

Bossy. Oh, I say! [He comes off the table in his 
consternation|. 


210 Fanny’s First Play | Act III 


MaraGaret. Did you learn it from a Frenchwoman? 
You know you must have learnt it from somebody. 

Bossy. Nota Frenchwoman. Shes quite a nice woman. 
But shes been rather unfortunate. The daughter of a 
clergyman. 

Marcaret [startled] Oh, Bobby! That sort of 
woman! 

Bossy. What sort of woman? 

Marcaret. You dont believe shes really a clergyman’s 
daughter, do you, you silly boy? It’s a stock joke. 

Bossy. Do you mean to say you dont believe me? 

Marcaret. No: I mean to say I dont believe her. 

Bossy [curious and interested, resuming his seat on the 
table beside her]. What do you know about her? What do 
you know about all this sort of thing? 

Marearet. What sort of thing, Bobby? 

Boppy. Well, about life. 

Marcaret. Ive lived a Jot since I saw you last. I 
wasnt at my aunt’s. All that time that you were in 
Brighton, I mean. 

Bossy. I wasnt at Brighton, Meg. I'd better tell you: 
youre bound to find out sooner or later. [He begins his 
confession humbly, avoiding her gaze]. Meg: it’s rather 
awful: youll think me no end of a beast. Ive been in 
prison. 

MarGaret. You! 

Bossy. Yes, me. For being drunk and assaulting the 
police. 

MarcGareEtT. Do you mean to say that you—oh! this is 
a let-down for me. [She comes off the table and drops, dis- 
consolate, into a chair at the end of it furthest from the 
hearth}. 

Bossy. Of course I couldnt hold you to our engage- 
ment after that. I was writing to you to break it off. 
[He also descends from the table and makes slowly for the 
hearth}. You must think me an utter rotter. 


Act Il Fanny’s First Play Q11 


Marearet. Oh, has everybody been in prison for 
being drunk and assaulting the police? How long were 
you in? 

Bossy. A fortnight. 

MaraGaret. Thats what I was in for. 

Bossy. What are you talking about? In where? 

MarGareET. In quod. 

Bossy. But I’m serious: I’m not rotting. Really and 
truly— 

Marearet. What did you do to the copper? 

Bossy. Nothing, absolutely nothing. He exaggerated 
grossly. I only laughed at him. 

MarGaret [jumping up, triumphant] Ive beaten you 
hollow. I knocked out two of his teeth. Ive got one of 
them. He sold it to me for ten shillings. 

Bossy. Now please do stop fooling, Meg. I tell you 
I’m not rotting. [He sits down in the armchair, rather 
sulkily). 

MarGaret [taking up the copy of Lloyd’s Weekly and 
going to him) And [I tell you I’m not either. Look! 
Heres a report of it. The daily papers are no good; but 
the Sunday papers are splendid. [She sits ou the arm of the 
chair]. See! [Reading]: ‘‘Hardened at Eighteen. A 
quietly dressed, respectable-looking girl who refuses her 
name’’—thats me. 

Bossy [pausing a moment in his perusal] Do you 
mean to say that you went on the loose out of pure 
devilment? 

Marcaret. I did no harm. I went to see a lovely 
dance. I picked up a nice man and went to have a dance 
myself. I cant imagine anything more innocent and more 
happy. All the bad part was done by other people: they 
did it out of pure devilment if you like. Anyhow, here we 
are, two gaolbirds, Bobby, disgraced forever. Isnt it a 
relief? 

Bossy [rising stiffly] But you know, it’s not the same 


oie Fanny’s First Play Act ITI 


for a girl. A man may do things a woman maynt. [He 
stands on the hearthrug with his back to the fire}. 

Marearer. Are you scandalized, Bobby? 

Bossy. Well, you cant expect me to approve of it, can 
you, Meg? I never thought you were that sort of girl. 

MARGARET [rising indignantly] TY'm not. You mustnt 
pretend to think that /’m a clergyman’s daughter, Bobby. 

Bossy. I wish you wouldnt chaff about that. Dont 
forget the row you got into for letting out that you ad- 
mired Juggins [she turns her back on him quickly|—a foot- 
man! And what about the Frenchman? 

Marcaret [facing him again] I know nothing about the 
Frenchman except that hes a very nice fellow and can 
swing his leg round like the hand of a clock and knock a 
policeman down with it. He was in Wormwood Scrubbs 
with you. I was in Holloway. 

Bossy. It’s all very well to make light of it, Meg; but 
this is a bit thick, you know. 

MarcGaret. Do you feel you couldnt marry a woman 
whos been in prison? 

Bossy [hastily] No. I never said that. It might even 
give a woman a greater claim on a man. Any girl, if she 
were thoughtless and a bit on, perhaps, might get into a 
scrape. Anyone who really understood her character 
could see there was no harm in it. But youre not the 
larky sort. At least you usent to be. 

MarGaret. I’m not; and I never will be. [She walks 
straight up to him]. I didnt do it for a lark, Bob: I did 
it out of the very depths of my nature. [ did it because 
I’m that sort of person. I did it in one of my religious fits. 
I’m hardened at eighteen, as they say. So what about the 
match, now? 

Boppy. Well, I dont think you can fairly hold me to it, 
Meg. Of course it would be ridiculous for me to set up 
to be shocked, or anything of that sort. I cant afford to 
throw stones at anybody; and I dont pretend to. I can 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 213 


understand a lark; I can forgive a slip; as long as it is 
understood that it is only a lark or a slip. But to go on 
the loose on principle; to talk about religion in connec- 
tion with it; to—to—well, Meg, I do find that a bit 
thick, I must say. I hope youre not in earnest when you 
talk that way. 

MarGaret. Bobby: youre no good. No good to me,_ 
anyhow. 

Bossy [huffed] I’m sorry, Miss Knox. 

Marcaret. Goodbye, Mr Gilbey. [She turns on her 
heel and goes to the other end of the table]. I suppose you 
wont introduce me to the clergyman’s daughter. 

Bossy. I dont think she’d like it. There are limits, 
after all. [He sits down at the table, as tf to resume work at 
his books: a hint to her to go}. 

MarGaret [on her way to the door] Ring the bell, Bobby; 
and tell Juggins to shew me out. 

Bossy [reddening| I’m not a cad, Meg. 

MarcGaret [coming to the table] Then do something nice 
to prevent us feeling mean about this afterwards. Youd 
better kiss me. You neednt ever do it again. 

Bossy. If I’m no good, I dont see what fun it would be 
for you. 

Marcaret. Oh, it’d be no fun. If I wanted what 
you call fun, I should ask the Frenchman to kiss me—or 
Juggins. 

Bossy [rising and retreating to the hearth] Oh, dont be 
disgusting, Meg. Dont be low. 

MarGaret [determinedly, preparing to use force| Now, Pil 
make you kiss me, just to punish you. [She seizes his wrist; 
pulls him off his balance; and gets her arm round his neck}. 

Bossy. No. Stop. Leave go, will you. 

Juggins appears at the door. 

Juceins. Miss Delaney, Sir. [Dora comes in. Juggins 
goes out. Margaret hastily releases Bobby, and gees to the 
other side of the room. 

/ 


214 Fanny’s First Play Act IIT 


Dora [through the door, to the departing Juggins] Well, 
you are a Juggins to shew me up when theres company. 
[To Margaret and Bobby] It’s all right, dear: all right, old 
man: I’ll wait in Juggins’s pantry til youre disengaged. 

MarGareEtT. Dont you know me? 

Dora [coming to the middle of the room and looking at her 
very attentively| Why, it’s never No. 406! 

MarGAret. Yes it is. 

Dora. Well, I should never have known you out of the 
‘uniform. How did you get out? You were doing a month, 
wernt you? 

Marcaret. My bloke paid the fine the day he got out 
himself. 

Dora. Areal gentleman! [Pointing to Bobby, who ts star- 
ing open-mouthed| Look at him. He cant take it in. 

Bogsy. I suppose you made her acquaintance in prison, 
Meg. But when it comes to talking about blokes and all 
that—well! | 

MarGaret. Oh, Ive learnt the language; and I like it. 
It’s another barrier broken down. 

Bossy. It’s not so much the language, Meg. But I 
think [he looks at Dora and stops]. 

MarcGaret [suddenly dangerous] What do you think, 
Bobby? 

Dora. He thinks you oughtnt to be so free with me, 
dearie. It does him credit: he always was a gentleman, 
you know. 

Marcaret. Does him credit! To insult you like that! 
Bobby: say that that wasnt what you meant. 

Bossy. I didnt say it was. 

MarGareEt. Well, deny that it was. 

Bossy. No. I wouldnt have said it in front of Dora; 
but I do think it’s not quite the same thing my knowing 
her and you knowing her. 

Dora. Of course it isnt, old man. [To Margaret] Pl 
just trot off and come back in half an hour. You 


Act III Fanny’s First Play Q15 


two can make it up together. I’m really not fit company 
for you, dearie: I couldnt live up to you. [She turns 
to gol. 

MARGARET. Stop. Do you believe he could live up to 
me? 

Dora. Well, Ill never - say anything to stand between 
a girl and a respectable marriage, or to stop a decent lad 
from settling himself. I have a conscience; though I 
maynt be as particular as some. 

MarGArET. You seem to me to be a very decent sort; 
and Bobby’s behaving like a skunk. 

Bogsy [much ruffled] Nice language that! 

Dora. Well, dearie, men have to do some awfully mean 
things to keep up their respectability. But you cant blame 
them for that, can you? Ive met Bobby walking with his 
mother; and of course he cut me dead. I wont pret:nd I 
liked it; but what could he do, poor dear? 

Marcaret. And now he wants me to cut you dead to 
keep him in countenance. Well, I shant: not if my whole 
family were there. But Ill cut him dead if he doesnt treat 
you properly. [To Bobby, with a threatening move in his 
direction] Ill educate you, you young beast. 

Bossy [furious, meeting her half way | Whoare you call- 
ing a young beast? 

Marcaret. You. 

Dora [peacemaking] Now, dearies! 

Bossy. If you dont take care, youll get your fat head 
jolly well clouted. 

Marcaret. If you dont take care, the policeman’s 
tooth will only be the beginning of a collection. 

Dora. Now, loveys, be good. 

Bobby, lost to all sense of adult dignity, puts out his tongue 
at Margaret. Margaret, equally furious, catches his pro- 
tended countenance a box on the cheek. He hurls himself 
her. They wrestle. 

Bossy. Cat! Tl teach you. 


216 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


Marcaret. Pig! Beast! [She forces him backwards on 
the table]. Now where are you? 

Dora [calling] Juggins, Juggins. Theyll murder one 
another. 

Juacins [throwing ‘open the door, and announcing] Mon- 
sieur Duvallet. 

Duvallet enters. Sudden cessation of hostilities, and dead 
silence. The combatants separate by the whole width of the 
room. dJuggins withdraws. 

Duvau.et. I fear I derange you. 

Marcaret. Notatall. Bobby: you really are a beast: 
Monsieur Duvallet will think I’m always fighting. 

Duvauuet. Practising jujitsu. or the new Iceland 
wrestling. Admirable, Miss Knox. The athletic young 
Englishwoman is an example to all Europe. [Indicating 
Bobby| Your instructor, no doubt. Monsieur—{[he bows]. 

Bossy [bowing awkwardly| How d’y’ do? 

MarGaret [to Bobby| I’m so sorry, Bobby: I asked 
Monsieur Duvallet to call for me here; and I forgot to tell 
you. [Introducing] Monsieur Duvallet: Miss Four hun- 
dred and seven. Mr Bobby Gilbey. ([Duvallet bows]. I 
really dont know how to explain our relationships. Bobby 
and I are like brother and sister. 

Duvattet. Perfectly. I noticed it. 

MarGaret. Bobby and Miss— Miss— 

Dora. Delaney, dear. [Zo Duvallet, bewiichingly]| 
Darling Dora, to real friends. 

Marcaret. Bobby and Dora are— are— well, not 
brother and sister. 

DvuVALLET [with redoubled comprehension] PErfectly. 

MarGaret. Bobby has spent the last fortnight in 
prison. You dont mind, do you? 

Duva.LetT. No, naturally. J have spent the last fort- 
night in prison. 

The conversation drops. Margaret renews it with an effort. 

MarGarReEt. Dora has spent the last fortnight in prison. 


Act III Fanny’s First Play oy 


DUVALLET. Quite so. I felicitate Mademoiselle on her 
enlargement. 

Dora. Trop merct, as they say in Boulogne. No call to 
be stiff with one another, have we? 

Juggins comes in. 

Juccins. Beg pardon, sir. Mr and Mrs Gilbey are 
coming up the street. 

Dora. Let me absquatulate [making for the door]. 

Juaeins. If you wish to leave without being seen, you 
had better step into my pantry and leave afterwards. 

Dora. Right oh! [She bursts into song] 

Hide me in the meat safe til the cop goes by. 
Hum the dear old music as his step draws nigh. 
[She goes out on tiptoe}. 

MarcGaret. I wont stay here if she has to hide. I'll 
keep her company in the pantry. [She follows Doral. 

Bossy. Lets all go. We cant have any fun with the 
Mar here. I say, Juggins: you can give us tea im the 
pantry, cant you? , 

JuGGINS. Certainly, sir. 

Bossy. Right. Say nothing to my mother. You dont 
mind, Mr. Doovalley, do you? 

Duvatuet. [I shall be charmed. 

Bossy. Right you are. Come along. [At the door] Oh, 
by the way, Juggins, fetch down that concertina from 
my room, will you? 

Jucartns. Yes, sir. [Bobby goes out. Duvallet follows him 
to the door]. You understand, sir, that Miss Knox is a lady 
absolutely comme il faut? 

DuvauueT. Perfectly. But the other? 

Juaeins. The other, sir, may be both charitably and 
accurately described in your native idiom as a daughter of 
joy. 

Duvauuet. It is what I thought. These English 
domestic interiors are very interesting. [Ie goes out, fol- 
lowed by Juggins). 


218 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


Presently Mr and Mrs Gilbey come in. They take their 
accustomed places: he on the hearthrug, she at the colder end 
of the table. 

Mrs Gitsey. Did you smell scent in the hall, Rob? 

GiLBEY. No, I didnt. And I dont want to smell it. 
Dont you go looking for trouble, Maria. 

Mrs Giuspey [snuffing up the perfumed atmosphere] Shes 
been here. [Gilbey rings the bell]. What are you ringing 
for? Are you going to ask? 

GiLBEY. No, I’m not going to ask. Juggins said this 
morning he wanted to speak to me. If he likes to tell me, 
let him; but I’m not going to ask; and dont you either. 
[Juggins appears at the door]. You said you wanted to say 
something to me. 

Juceins. When it would be convenieut to you, sir. 

GiLBEY. Well, what is it? 

Mrs GiuBey. Oh, Juggins, we’re expecting Mr and Mrs 
Knox to tea. 

GitBey. He knows that. [He sits down. Then, to Jug- 
gins] What is it? 

Juceins [advancing to the middle of the table] Would it 
inconvenience you, sir, if I was to give you a month’s 
notice? 

GiLBEY [taken aback] What! Why? Aint you satisfied? 

JuGceins. Perfectly, sir. It is not that I want to better 
myself, I assure you. 

GILBEY. Well, what do you want to leave for, then? 
Do you want to worse yourself? 

Juccins. No, sir. Ive been well treated in your most 
comfortable establishment; and JI should be greatly dis- 
tressed if you or Mrs Gilbey were to interpret my notice 
as an expression of dissatisfaction. 

GiLBEy [paternally] Now you listen to me, Juggins. 
I’m an older man than you. Dont you throw out dirty 
water til you getin fresh. Dont get too big for your boots. 
Youre like all servants nowadays: you think youve only 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 219 


to hold up your finger to get the pick of half a dozen jobs. 
But you wont be treated everywhere as youre treated 
here. In bed every night before eleven; hardly a ring at 
the door except on Mrs Gilbey’s day once a month; and 
no otner manservant to interfere with you. It may be a 
bit quiet perhaps; but youre past the age of adventure. 
Take my advice: think over it. Yon suit me; and I’m 
prepared to make it suit you if youre dissatisfied—in 
reason, you know. 

Juccins. I realize my advantages, sir; but Ive private 
reasons 

GILBEY [cutting him short angrily and retiring to the 
hearthrug in dudgeon| Oh, I know. Very well: go. The 
sooner the better. 

Mrs Gitsey. Oh, not until we’re suited. He must stay 
his month. 

GiLBEY [sarcastic] Do you want to lose him his charae- 
ter, Maria? Do you think I dont see what it is? We're 
prison folk now. Weve been in the police court. [To Jug- 
gins| Well, I suppose you know your own business best. 
I take your notice: you can go when your month is up, or 
sooner, if you like. 

JuGcecins. Believe me, sir— 

GiLBEY. Thats enough: I dont want any excuses. I 
dont blame you. You can go downstairs now, if youve 
nothing else to trouble me about. 

Juaains. I really cant leave it at that, sir. [assure you 
Ive no objection to young Mr Gilbey’s going to prison. 
You may do six months yourself, sir, and weleome, with- 
out a word of remonstrance from me. I’m leaving solely 
because my brother, who has suffered a bereavement, and 
feels lonely, begs me to spend a few months with him 
until he gets over it. 

GitBEy. And is he to keep yon all that time? or are 
you to spend your savings in comforting him? Have some 
sense, man: how can you afford such things? 





920 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


Juaeins. My brother can afford to keep me, sir. The 
truth is, he objects to my being in service. 

Givpey. Is that any reason why you should be depend- 
ent on him? Dont do it, Juggins: pay your own way like 
an honest lad; and dont eat your brother’s bread while 
youre able to earn your own. 

Jucains. There is sound sense in that, sir. But un- 
fortunately it is a tradition in my family that the younger 
brothers should spunge to a considerable extent on the 
eldest. 

GiLBEY. Then the sooner that tradition is broken, the 
better, my man. 

JucGins. A Radical sentiment, sir. But an excellent 
one. 

GILBEY. Radical! What do you mean? Dont you begin 
to take liberties, Juggins, now that you know we’re loth to 
part with you. Your brother isnt a duke, you know. 

JuaeGins. Unfortunately, he is, sir. 

GILBEY. he ‘] ue 

Mrs Gitsey. f O9°er Juggius! 

Juacins. Excuse me, sir: the bell. [He goes out]. 

GILBEY [overwhelmed] Maria: did you understand him 
to say his brother was a duke? 

Mrs Gruprey. Fancy his condescending! Perhaps if 
youd offer to raise his wages and treat him as one of the 
family, he’d stay. 

GiLtBey. And have my own servant above me! Not me. 
Whats the world coming to? Heres Bobby and— 

JuGains [entering and announcing] Mr and Mrs Knox. 

The Knoxes come in. Juggins takes two chairs from the 
wall and places them at the table, between the host and hostess. 
Then he withdraws. 

Mrs. GinBey [to Mrs Knox} How are you, dear? 

Mrs Knox. Nicely, thank you. Good evening, Mr 
Gilbey. [They shake hands; and she talzes the chair nearest 
Mrs Gilbey. Mr Knox takes the other chair}. 


Act III Fanny’s First Play Zon 


GiLBEY [sitting down] I was just saying, Knox, What 
is the world coming to? 

Kwox [appealing to his wife] What was I saying myself 
only this morning? 

Mrs Knox. This is a strange time. I was never one to 
talk about the end of the world; but look at the things 
that have happened! 

Knox. Earthquakes! 

GILBEY. San Francisco! 

Mrs Gitpey. Jamaica! 

Knox. Martinique! 

GILBEY. Messina! 

Mrs Gitpey. The plague in China! 

Mrs Knox. The floods in France! 

GiLBEY. My Bobby in Wormwood Scrubbs! 

Knox. Margaret in Holloway! 

GiILBEY. And now my footman tells me his brother’s a 
duke! 

Knox. \ eon 

Mrs Knox.) | Whats that? 

GILBEY. Just before he let you in. A duke! Here has 
everything been respectable from the beginning of the 
world, as you may say, to the present day; and all of a 
sudden everything is turned upside down. 

Mrs Knox. It’s like in the book ‘of Revelations. 
But I do say that unless people have happiness 
within themselves, all the earthquakes, all the floods, 
and all the prisons in the world cant make them really 
happy. 

Knox. It isnt alone the curious things that are happen- 
ing, but the unnatural way people are taking them. Why, 
theres Margaret been in prison, and she hasnt time to go 
to all the invitations shes had from people that never 
asked her before. 

GiuBEY. I never knew we could live without being 
respectable. 


222 Fanny’s First Play Act Lit 


Mrs Ginsey. Oh, Rob, what a thing to say! Who says 
we re not respectable? 

GILBEY. Well, it’s not what I call respectable to have 
your children in and out of gaol. 

Knox. Oh come, Gilbey! we’re not tramps because 
weve had, as it were, an accident. 

GILBEY. It’s no use, Knox: look it in the face. Did I 
ever tell you my father drank? 

Knox. No. But I knew it. Simmons told me. 

GILBEY. Yes: he never could keep his mouth quiet: he 
told me your aunt was a kleptomaniac. 

Mrs Knox. It wasnt true, Mr Gilbey. She used to 
pick up handkerchiefs if she saw them lying about; but 
you might trust her with untold silver. 

GitBEy. My Uncle Phil was a teetotailer. My father 
used to say to me: Rob, he says, dont you ever have a 
weakness. If you find one getting a hold on you, make a 
merit of it, he says. Your Uncle Phil doesnt like spirits; 
and he makes a merit of it, and is chairman of the Blue 
Ribbon Committee. I do like spirits; and I make a merit 
of it, and I’m the King Cockatoo of the Convivial Cocka- 
toos. Never put yourself in the wrong, he says. I used 
to boast about what a good boy Bobby was. Now I 
swank about what a dog he is; and it pleases people just 
as well. What a world it is! 

Knox. It turned my blood cold at first to hear Mar- 
garet telling people about Holloway; but it goes down 
better than her singing used to. 

Mrs Knox. I never thought she sang right after all 
those lessons we paid for. 

GiLBEY. Lord, Knox, it was lucky you and me got let 
in together. I tell you straight, if it hadnt been for 
Bobby’s disgrace, I'd have broke up the firm. 

Knox. I shouldnt have blamed you: I'd have done the 
same only for Margaret. ‘Too much straightlacedness 
narrows a man’s mind. Talking of that, what about those 


Act IT Fanny’s First Play 225 


hygienic corset advertisements that Vines & Jackson want 
us to put in the window? I told Vines they werent decent 
and we couldnt shew them in our.shop. I was pretty high 
with him. But what am I to say to him now if he comes 
and throws this business in our teeth? 

GitBEY. Oh, putcmin. We may as well go it a bit 
now. 

Mrs Gitpey. Youve been going it quite far enough, 
Rob. [To Mrs Knox] He wont get up in the mornings now: 
he that was always out of bed at seven to the tick! 

Mrs Knox. You hear that, Jo? [To Mrs Gilbey] Hes 
taken to whisky and soda. A pint a week! And the beer 
the same as before! 

Kwox. Oh, dont preach, old girl. 

Mrs Knox [To Mrs Gilbey] Thats a new name hes got 
for me. [fo Knox] I tell you, Jo, this doesnt sit well on 
you. You may call it preaching if you like; but it’s the 
truth for all that. I say that if youve happiness within 
yourself, you dont need to seek it outside, spending money 
on drink and theatres and bad company, and being miser- 
able after all. You can sit at home and be happy; and 
you can work and be happy. If you have that in you, the 
spirit will set you free to do what you want and guide you 
to do right. But if you havent got it, then youd best be 
respectable and stick to the ways that are marked out for 
you; for youve nothing else to keep vou straight. 

Knox [angrily] And is a man never to have a bit of fun? 
See whats come of it with your daughter! She was to be 
content with your happiness that youre always talking 
about; and how did the spirit guide her? To a month’s 
hard for being drunk and assaulting the police. Did J ever 
assault the police? 

Mrs Knox. You wouldnt have the courage. I dont 
blame the girl. 

Mrs GI.bey. \ Oh, Maria! What are you saying? 

GILBEY. What! And you so pious! 


Q24 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


Mrs Knox. She went where the spirit guided her. And 
what harm there was in it she knew nothing about. 

GILBEY. Oh, come, Mrs Knox! Girls are not so inno- 
cent as all that. 

Mrs Knox. I dont say she was ignorant. But Ido say 
that she didnt know what we know: I mean the way 
certain temptations get a sudden hold that no goodness 
nor self-control is any use against. She was saved from 
that, and had a rough lesson too; and I say it was no 
earthly protection that did that. But dont think, you 
two men, that youll be protected if you make what she 
did an excuse to go and do as youd like to do if it wasnt 
for fear of losing your characters. The spirit wont guide 
you, because it isnt in you; and it never had been: not 
in either of you. 

GILBEY [with ironic humility] ?'m sure I’m obliged to 
you for your good opinion, Mrs Knox. 

Mrs Knox. Well, I will say for you, Mr Gilbey, that 
youre better than my man here. Hes a bitter hard 
heathen, is my Jo, God help me! [She begins to cry quietly]. 

Kwox. Now, dont take on like that, Amelia. You 
know I always give in to you that you were right about 
religion. But one of us had to think of other things, or 
we'd have starved, we and the child. 

Mrs Knox. How do you know youd have starved? All 
the other things might have been added unto you. 

GILBEY. Come, Mrs Knox, dont tell me Knox is a 
sinner. I know better. I’m sure youd be the first to be 
sorry if anything was to happen to him. 

Knox [bitterly to his wife] Youve always had some 
grudge against me; and nobody but yourself can under- 
stand what it is. 

Mrs Knox. I wanted a man who had that happiness 
within himself. You made me think you had it; but it 
was nothing but being in love with me. 

Mrs Gitsey. And do you blame him for that? 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 295 


Mrs Knox. I blame nobody. But let him not think he 
can walk by his own light. I tell him that if he gives up 
being respectable he’ll go right down to the bottom of the 
hill. He has no powers inside himself to keep him steady; 
so Jet him eling to the powers outside him. 

Knox [rising angrily] Who wants to give up being re- 
spectable? All this for a pint of whisky that lasted a 
week! How long would it have lasted Simmons, I wonder? 

Mrs Knox [gently] Oh, well, say no more, Jo. I wont 
plague you about it. [He sits down]. You never did 
understand; and you never will. Hardly anybody under- 
stands: even Margaret didnt til she went to prison. She 
does now; and I shall have a companion in the house after 
all these lonely years. 

Knox [beginning to cry] I did all I could to make you 
happy. I never said a harsh word to you. 

GILBEY [rising indignantly] What right have you to 
treat a man like that? an honest respectable husband? as 
if he were dirt under your feet? 

I<nox. Let her alone, Gilbey. [Gilbey sits down, but 
mutinously]. 

Mrs Knox. Well, you gave me all you could, Jo; and 
if it wasnt what I wanted, that wasnt your fault. But I’d 
rather have you as you were than since you took to 
whisky and soda. 

Knox. I dont want any whisky and soda. I'll take the 
pledge if you like. 

Mrs Knox. No: you shall have your beer because you 
like it. The whisky was only brag. And if you and me 
are to remain friends, Mr Gilbey, youll get up to-morrow 
morning at seven. 

GILBEY [defiantly] Damme if I will! There! 

Mrs Knox [with gentle pity} How do you know, Mr 
Gilbey, what youll do to-morrow morning? 

GiLtBEY. Why shouldnt I know? Are we children not 
to be let do what we like, and our own sons and daughters 


226 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


kicking their heels all over the place? [To Knoz] I was 
never one to interfere between man and wife, Knox; but 
if Maria started ordering me aboutilike that— 

Mrs GitBey. Now dont be naughty, Kob. You know 
you mustnt set yourself up against religion? 

Gitpey. Whos setting himself up against religion? 

Mrs Knox. It doesnt matter whether you set yourself 
up against it or not, Mr. Gilbey. If it sets itself up against 
you, youll have to go the appointed way: it’s no use 
quarrelling about it with me that am as great a sinner as 
yourself. 

GitBEy. Oh, indeed! And who told you I was a sinner? 

Mrs Giutprey. Now, Rob, you know we are all sinners. 
What else is religion? 

Gitpey. I say nothing against religion. I suppose we’re 
all sinners, in a manner of speaking; but I dont like to 
have it thrown at me as if I’d really done anything. 

Mrs Gitspey. Mrs Knox is speaking for your good, Rob. 

GitBEY. Well, I dont like to be spoken to for my good. 
Would anybody like it? 

Mrs Knox. Dont take offence where none is meant, 
Mr Gilbey. Talk about something else. No good ever 
comes of arguing about such things among the like of us. 

Knox. The like of us! Are you throwing it in our 
teeth that your people were in the wholesale and thought 
Knox and Gilbey wasnt good enough for you? 

Mrs Knox. No, Jo: you know I’m not. What better 
were my people than yours, for all their pride? But Ive 
noticed it all my life: we’re ignorant. We dont really 
know whats right and whats wrong. We're all right as 
long as things go on the way they always did. We bring 
our children up just as we were brought up; and we go to 
church or chapel just as our parents did; and we say what 
everybody says; and it goes on all right until something 
out of the way happens: theres a family quarrel, or one of 
the children goes wrong, or a father takes to drink, or an 


Act Ill Fanny’s First Play 297 


aunt goes mad, or one of us finds ourselves doing some- 
thing we never thought we’d want to do. And then you 
know what happens: complaints and quarrels and huff 
and offence and bad language and bad temper and regular 
bewilderment as if Satan possessed us all. We find out 
then that with all our respectability and piety, weve no 
real religion and no way of telling right from wrong. Weve 
nothing but our habits; and when theyre upset, where are 
we? Just like Peter in the storm trying to walk on the 
water and finding he couldnt. 

Mrs Giupey [piously] Aye! He found out, didut he? 

GiLBEY [reverently| I never denied that youve a great 
intellect, Mrs Knox— 

Mrs Knox. Oh get along with you, Gilbey, if you be- 
gin talking about my intellect. Give us some tea, Maria. 
Ive said my say; and Im sure I beg the company’s pardon 
for being so long about it, and so disagreeable. 

Mrs Gitpey. Ring, Rob. [Gilbey rings]. Stop. Juggins 
will think we’re ringing for him. 

G1LBEy [appalled] It’s too late. Irang before I thought 
of it. 

Mrs Gixispey. Step down and apologize, Rob. 

Knox. Is it him that you said was brother to a— 

Juggins eomes in with the tea-tray. All rise. He takes 
the tray to Mrs. Gilbey. 

GitBEy. I didnt mean to ask you to do this, Mr Juggins. 
I wasnt thinking when I rang. 

Mrs GIusey [trying to take the tray from him] Let me, 
Juggins. 

JuGcains. Please sit down, madam. Allow mc to dis- 
charge my duties just as usual, sir. I assure you that is 
the correct thing. [They sit down, ill at ease, whilst he 
places the tray on the table. Ie then gocs out for the curate}. 

Knox [lowering his voice] Is this all right, Gilbey? 
Anybody may be the son of a duke, you know. Is he 
legitimate? 


228 Fanny’s First Play Act ITI 


GILBEY. Good lord! I never thought of that. 

Juggins returns with the cakes. They regard him with 
Suspicion. 

GILBEY [whispering to Knox] You ask him. 

Knox [to Juggins] Just a word with you, my man. Was 
your mother married to your father? 

Juceins. I believe so, sir. I cant say from personal 
knowledge. It was before my time. 

GILBEY. Well, but look here you know—[he hesitates]. 

JUGGINS. Yes, sir? 

Knox. I know whatill clinch it, Gilbey. You leave it to 
me. [Zo Juggins] Was your mother the duchess? 

Juaains. Yes, sir. Quite correct, sir, I assure you. 
[To Mrs Gilbey] That is the milk, madam. [She has mis- 
taken the jugs]. This is the water. 

They stare at him in pitiable embarrassment. 

Mrs Knox. What did [tell you? Heres something out 
of the common happening with a servant; and we none 
of us know how to behave. 

JuGGins. It’s quite simple, madam. I’m a footman, 
and should be treated as a footman. [He proceeds calmly 
with his duties, handing round cups of tea as Mrs Knox fills 
them|}. 

Shrieks of laughter from below stairs reach the ears of the 
company. 

Mrs Girpey. Whats that noise? Is Master Bobby at 
home? I heard his laugh. 

Mrs Knox. I’m sure I heard Margaret’s. 

GILBEY. Not a bit of it. It was that woman. 

JuGcains. I can explain, sir. I must ask you to excuse 
the liberty; but I’m entertaining a small party to tea in 
my pantry. 

Mrs Giusey. But youre not entertaining Master 
Bobby? 

JuGcGcins. Yes, madam. 

GILBEY. Who’s with him? 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 229 


Juaains. Miss Knox, sir. 

GitBeY. Miss Knox! Are you sure? Is there anyone 
else? 

Juaains. Only a French marine officer, sir, and—er— 
Miss Delaney. [He places Gilbey’s tea on the table before 
him]. The lady that called about Master Bobby, sir. 

Knox. Do you mean to say theyre having a party all 
to themselves downstairs, and we having a party up here 
and knowing nothing about it? 

Jucains. Yes, sir. I have to do a good deal of enter- 
taining in the pantry for Master Bobby, sir. 

GILBEY. Well, this is a nice state of things! 

Knox. Whats the meaning of it? What do they do it 
for? 

Juceins. To enjoy themselves, sir, I should think. 

Mrs GiLtBEy. Enjoy themselves! Did ever anybody 
hear of such a thing? 

GILBEY. Knox’s daughter shewn into my pantry! 

Knox. Margaret mixing with a Frenchman and a foot- 
man—|Suddenly realizing that the footman is offering him 
cake| She doesnt know about—about His Grace, you know. 

Mrs Gintpey. Perhaps she does. Does she, Mr Juggins? 

Juceins. The other lady suspects me, madam. They 
call me Rudolph, or the Long Lost Heir. 

Mrs Giuspey. It’s a much nicer name than Juggins. I 
think Pll call you by it, if you dont mind. 

Jucains. Not at all, madam. 

Roars of merriment from below. 

GiLBEY. Go and tell them to stop laughing. What right 
have they to make a noise like that? 

JuGceins. LTasked them not to laugh so loudly, sir. But 
the French gentleman always sets them off again. 

Knox. Do you mean to tell me that my daughter 
laughs at a Frenchman’s jokes? 

GiLBEY. We all know what French jokes are. 

Juaains. Believe me: you do not, sir. The noise this 


230 Fanny’s First Play Act Hii 


afternoon has all been because the Frenchman said that 
the cat had whooping cough. 

Mrs Gipey [laughing heartily] Well, I never! 

GitBEy. Dont be a fool, Maria. Look here, Knox: we 
cant let this go on. People cant be allowed to behave like 
this. 

Knox. Just what I say. 

A concertina adds its music to the revelry. 

Mrs Grusey [excited] Thats the squiffer. Hes bought 
it for her. 

GitBey. Well, of all the scandalous—[Redoubled laughter 
from below]. 

Knox. Ill puta stop to this. [He goes out to the landing 
and shouts} Margaret! [Sudden dead silence]. Margaret, 
I say! 

MARGARET’s Voice. Yes, father. Shall we all come up? 
We're dying to. 

Knox. Come up and be ashamed of yourselves, behav- 
ing like wild Indians. 

Dora’s Voice [screaming] Oh! oh! oh! Dont, Bobby. 
Now—oh! [In headlong flight she dashes into and right 
across the room, breathless, and slightly abashed by the com- 
pany]. I beg your pardon, Mrs Gilbey, for coming in like 
that; but whenever I go upstairs in front of Bobby, he pre- 
tends it’s a cat biting my ankles; and I just must scream. 

Bobby and Margaret enter rather more shyly, but evidently 
in high spirits. Bobby places himself near his father, on the 
hearthrug, and presently slips down into the arm-chair. 

Marcaret. How do you do, Mrs. Gilbey? [She posts 
herself behind her mother}. 

Duvallet comes in behaving himself perfectly. Knox fol- 
lows. 

Marcaret. Oh—let me introduce. My friend Lieu- 
tenant Duvallet. Mrs Gilbey. Mr Gilbey. [Duvallet bows 
and sits down on Mr Knox’s left, Juggins placing a chair for 
him]. 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 231 


Dora. Now, Bobby: introduce me: theres a dear. 

Bossy [a little nervous about it; but trying to keep up his 
spirits] Miss Delaney: Mr and Mrs Knox. [Anoz, as he 
resumes his seat, acknowledges the introduetion suspiciously. 
Mrs Knox bows gravely, looking kecnly at Dora and taking 
her measure without prejudice}. 

Dora. Pleased to mect you. [Juggins places the baby 
rocking-chair for her on Mrs Gilbey’s right, opposite Mrs 
Knox}. Thank you. [She sits and turns to Mrs Gilbey} 
Bobby’s given me the squiffer. [To the company generally] 
Do you know what theyve been doing downstairs? [She 
goes off into eestasies of mirth]. Youd never guess. Theyve 
been trying to teach me table manners. The Lieutenant 
and Rudolph say I'm a regular pig. I’m sure I never knew 
there was anything wrong with me. But live and learn 
[to Gilbey| ch, old dear? 

Jucains. Old dear is not correct, Miss Delaney. [He 
retires to the end of the sideboard nearest the door}. 

Dora. Oh get out! I must call a man something. He 
doesnt mind: do you, Charlie? 

Mrs Giuspey. His name isnt Charlie. 

Dora. Excuse me. I call everybody Charlie. 

JUGGINS. You mustnt. 

Dora. Oh, if I were to mind you, I should have to hold 
my tongue altogether; and then how sorry youd be! 
Lord, how I do run on! Dont mind me, Mrs Gilbey. 

Knox. What I want to know is, whats to be the end of 
this? It’s not for me to interfere between you and your 
son, Gilbey: he knows his own intentions best, no doubt, 
and perhaps has told them to you. But Ive my daughter 
to look after; and it’s my duty as a parent to have a clear 
understanding about her. No good is ever done by beating 
about the bush. I ask Lieutenant—well, IJ dont speak 
French; and I cant pronounce the name— 

Marearet. Mr Duvallet, father. 

Kwox. I ask Mr Doovalley what his intentions are. 


22 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


Marcaret. Oh father: how can you? 

Duvauuet. I’m afraid my knowledge of English is not 
enough to understand. Intentions? How? 

Marcaret. He wants to know will you marry me. 

Mrs Gitpey. | What a thing to say! 


Knox. Silence, miss. 

Dora. Well, thats straight, aint it? 

DuvauLet. But I am married already. I have two 
daughters. 


Kwox [rising, virtuously indignant] You sit there after 
carrying on with my daughter, and tell me coolly youre 
married. 

Marcaret. Papa: you really must not tell people that 
they sit there. [He sits down aguin sulkily]. 

DuvaLuet. Pardon. Carrying on? What does that 
mean? 

Marcaret. It means— 

Knox [violently] Hold your tongue, you shameless 
young hussy. Dont you dare say what it means. 

DuvaL_eEt [shrugging his shoulders] What does it mean, 
Rudolph? 

Mrs Knox. If it’s not proper for her to say, it’s not 
proper for a man to say, either. Mr Doovalley: youre a 
married man with daughters. Would you let them go 
about with a stranger, as you are to us, without wanting 
to know whether he intended to behave honorably? 

Duvauuet. Ah, madam, my daughters are French girls. 
That is very different. It would not be correct for a French 
girl to go about alone and speak to men as English and 
American girls do. That is why Iso immensely admire the 
English people. You are so free—so unprejudiced—your 
women are so brave and frank—their minds are so—how 
do you say?—wholesome. I intend to have my daughters 
educated in England. Nowhere else in the world but in 
England could I have met at a Variety Theatre a charming 
young lady of perfect respectability, and enjoyed a dance 


Act III Fanny’s First Play 233 


with her at a publie dancing saloon. And where else are 
women trained to box and knock out the teeth of policemen 
as a protest against injustice and violence? [Rzsing, with 
immense élan] Your daughter, madam, is superb. Your 
eountry is a model to the rest of Europe. If you were a 
Frenchman, stifled with prudery, hypocrisy and the tyr- 
anny of the family and the home, you would understand 
how an enlightened Frenchman admires and envies your 
freedom, your broadmindedness, and the fact that home 
life ean hardly be said to exist in England. You have 
made an end of the despotism of the parent; the family 
council is unknown to you; everywhere in these islands one 
ean enjoy the exhilarating, the soul-liberating spectacle 
of men quarrelling with their brothers, defying their fathers, 
refusing to speak to their mothers. In France we are not 
men: we are only sons—grown-up ehildren. Here one is 
a human being—an end in himself. Oh, Mrs Knox, if 
only your military genius were equal to your moral genius 
—if that conquest of Europe by France which inaugurated 
the new age after the Revolution had only been an English 
conquest, how much more enlightened the world would 
have been now! We, alas, can only fight. Franee is un- 
eonquerable. We impose our narrow ideas, our prejudices, 
our obsolete institutions, our insufferable pedantry on the 
world by brute foree—by that stupid quality of military 
heroism which shews how little we have evolved from the 
savage: nay, from the beast. We ean charge like bulls; 
we can spring on our foes like gameeocks; when we are 
overpowered by reason, we ean die fighting like rats. 
And we are foolish enough to be proud of it! Whiv should 
we be? Does the bull progress? Can you eivilize the 
gamecock? Is there any future for the rat? We eant 
even fight intelligently: when we lose battles, it is beeause 
we have not sense enough to know when we are beaten. 
At Waterloo, had we known when we were beaten, we 
should have retreated; tried another plan; and won the 


234 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


battle. But no: we were too pigheaded to admit that 
there is anything impossible to a Frenchman: we were 
quite satisfied when our Marshals had six horses shot under 
them, and our stupid old grognards died fighting rather 
than surrender like reasonable beings. Think of your 
great Wellington: think of his inspiring words, when the 
lady asked him whether British soldiers ever ran away. 
** All soldiers run away, madam,”’ he said; “‘but if there are 
supports for them to fall back on it does not matter.”’ 
Think of your illustrious Nelson, always beaten on land, 
always victorious at sea, where his men could not run 
away. You are not dazzled and misled by false ideals of 
patriotic enthusiasm: your honest and sensible statesmen 
demand for England a two-power standard, even a three- 
power standard, frankly admitting that it is wise to fight 
three to one: whilst we, fools and braggarts as we are, de- 
clare that every Frenchman is a host in himself, and that 
when one Frenchman attacks three Englishmen he is 
guilty of an act of cowardice comparable to that of the 
man who strikes a woman. It is folly: it is nonsense: a 
Frenchman is not really stronger than a German, than an 
Italian, even than an Englishman. Sir: if all Frenchwomen 
were like your daughter—if all Frenchmen had the good 
sense, the power of seeing things as they really are, the 
calm judgment, the open mind, the philosophic grasp, the 
foresight and true courage, which are so natural to you as 
an Englishman that you are hardly conscious of possessing 
them, France would become the greatest nation in the world. 

MarGaret. Three cheers for old England! [She shakes 
hands with him warmly}. 

Boxsspy. Hurra-a-ay! And so say all of us. 

Duvallet, having responded to Margaret’s handshake with 
enthusiasm, kisses Juggins on both cheeks, and sinks into his 
chair, wiping his perspiring brow. 

GILBEY. Well, this sort of talk is above me. Can you 
make anything out of it, Knox? 


Act II Fanny’s First Play 235 


knox. The long and short of it seems to be that he cant 
lawfully marry my daughter, as he ought after going to 
prison with her. 

Dora. I’m ready to marry Bobby, if that will be any 
satisfaction. 

GiLtBEY. No you dont. Not if I know it. 

Mrs Knox. He ought to, Mr Gilbey. 

GitBEY. Well, if thats your religion, Amelia Knox, I 
want no more of it. Would you invite them to your house 
if he married her? 

Mrs Knox. He ought to marry her whether or no. 

Bossy. I feel I ought to, Mrs Knox. 

GitbEy. Hold your tongue. Mind your own business. 

Bossy [wildly] If I’m not let marry her, I'll do some- 
thing downright disgraceful. Tl enlist as a soldier. 

Jucains. That is not a disgrace, sir. 

Bossy. Not for you, perhaps. But youre only a foot- 
man. I’m a gentleman. 

Mrs Giutsey. Dont dare to speak disrespectfully to Mr 
Rudolph, Bobby. For shame! 

Jucains [coming forward to the middle of the table] It is not 
gentlemanly to regard the service of your country as 
disgraceful. It is gentlemanly to marry the lady you make 
love to. 

GitBeEy [aghast] My boy is to marry this woman and 
be a social outcast! 

Juceains. Your boy and Miss Delaney will be inexorably 
condemned by respectable society to spend the rest of their 
days in precisely the sort of company they seem to like 
best and be most at home in. 

Knox. And my daughter? Whos to marry my daughter? 

Juaeins. Your daughter, sir, will probably marry who- 
ever she makes up her mind to marry. She is a lady of 
very determined charaeter. 

Knox. Yes: if he’d have her with her character gone. 
But who would? Youre the brother of a duke. Would— 


236 Fanny’s First Play Act III 


Bossy. Whats that? 
MARGARET. Juggins a duke? 
DUVALLET. Comment! 

Dora. What did I tell you? 


Knox. Yes: the brother of a duke: thats what he is. 
[To Juggins] Well, would you marry her? 

Juceins. I was about to propose that solution of your 
problem, Mr Knox. 


Mrs Gitpry. ) ( Well I never! 
Knox. | Dive mean it? 
Mrs Knox. Marry Margaret! 


Jucerns [continuing] As an idle younger son, unable to 
support myself, or even to remain in the Guards in com- 
petition with the grandsons of American millionaires, I 
could not have aspired to Miss Knox’s hand. But as a 
sober, honest, and industrious domestic servant, who has, 
I trust, given satisfaction to his employer [he bows to Mr 
Gilbey} I feel I am a man with a character. It is for Miss 
Knox to decide. 

Marearert. I got into a frightful row once for admiring 
you, Rudolph. 

Juaeins. I should have got into an equally frightful 
row myself, Miss, had I betrayed my admiration for you. 
I looked forward to those weekly dinners. 

Mrs Knox. But why did a gentleman like you stoop to 
be a footman? 

Dora. He stooped to conquer. 

Marcaret. Shut up, Dora: I want to hear. 

Juceins. I will explain; but only Mrs Knox will under- 
stand. I once insulted a servant—rashly; for he was a 
siucere Christian. He rebuked me for trifling with a girl 
of his own class. I told him to remember what he was, 
and to whom he was speaking. He said God would re- 
member. I discharged him on the spot. 

GiLBEY. Very properly. | 

Knox. What right had he tomention such a thing to you? 


Act Il Fanny’s First Play 237 


Mrs Giusey. What are servants coming to? 

Mrs Knox. Did it come true, what he said? 

Juaeins. It stuck like a poisoned arrow. It rankled 
for months. Then I gave in. I apprenticed myself to an 
old butler of ours who kept a hotel. He taught me my 
present business, and got me a place as footman with 
Mr Gilbey. If ever I meet that man again I shall be able 
to look him in the faee. 

Mrs Knox. Margaret: it’s not on account of the duke: 
dukes are vanities. But take my adviee and take him. 

MarGaret [slipping her arm through his] I have loved 
Juggins sinee the first day I beheld him. I felt instinc- 
tively he had been in the Guards. May he walk out with 
me, Mr Gilbey? 

Knox. Dont be vulgar, girl. Remember your new posi- 
tion. [Zo Juggins| I suppose youre serious about this, 
Mr—Mr Rudolph? 

JuaciIns. I propose, with your permission, to begin 
keeping company this afternoon, if Mrs Gilbey can spare 
me. 

GILBEY [in a gust of envy, to Bobby] Itll be long enough 
before youll marry the sister of a duke, you young good- 
for-nothing. 

Dora. Dont fret, old dear. Rudolph will teach me 
high-class manners. I call it quite a happy ending: dont 
you, heutenant? 

DuvauLet. In Franee it would be impossible. But 
here—ah! [kisstng his hand] la belle Angleterre! 


EPILOGUE 


Before the curtain. The Count, dazed and agitated, hurries 
to the 4 critics, as they rise, bored and weary, from their seats. 


Tue Count. Gentlemen: do not speak to me. I im- 
plore you to withhold your opinion. I am not strong 
enough to bear it. I could never have believed it. Is this 
a play? Is this in any sense of the word, Art? Is it 
agreeable? Can it conceivably do good to any human 
being? Is it delicate? Do such people really exist? Ex- 
cuse me, gentlemen: I speak from a wounded heart. 
There are private reasons for my discomposure. This 
play implies obscure, unjust, unkind reproaches and men- 
aces to all of us who are parents. 

Trorrer. Pooh! you take it too seriously. After all, 
the thing has amusing passages. Dismiss the rest as 
impertinence. 

Ture Count. Mr Trotter: it is easy for you to play the 
pococurantist. [Trotter, amazed, repeats the first three sylla- 
bles in his throat, making a noise like a pheasant]. You see 
hundreds of plays every year. But to me, who have never 
seen anything of this kind before, the effect of this play 
is terribly disquieting. Sir: if it had been what people call 
an immoral play, I shouldnt have minded a bit. [Vaughan 
as shocked]. Love beautifies every romance and justifies 
every audacity. [Bannal assents gravely]. But there are 
reticences which everybody should respect. There are 

238 


Fanny’s First Play 939 


decencies too subtle to be pnt into words, without which 
human society would be unbearable. People could not 
talk to one another as those people talk. No ehild could 
speak to its parent—no girl could speak to a youth—no 
human creature conld tear down the veils—|[A ppealing to 
Vaughan, who is on his left flank, with Gunn between them} 
Could they, sir? 

VauGHAN. Well, I dont see that. 

Tue Count. You dont see it! dont feel it! [To Gunn] 
Sir: I appeal to you. 

GUNN [with studied weariness] It seems to me the most 
ordinary sort of old-fashioned [bsenite drivel. 

Tue Count [turning to Trotter, who is on his right, be- 
tween himand Bannal] Mr Trotter: will you tell me that 
you are not amazed, outraged, revolted, wounded in your 
deepest and holiest feelings by every word of this play, 
every tone, every implication; that you did not sit there 
shrinking in every fibre at the thought of what might 
come next? : 

Trotter. Not a bit. Any clever modern girl could 
turn out that kind of thing by the yard. 

Tre Count. Then, sir, tomorrow I start for Venice, 
never to return. I must believe what you tell me. I per- 
ceive that you are not agitated, not surprised, not con- 
cerned; that my own horror (yes, gentlemen, horror— 
horror of the very soul) appears unaccountable to you, 
ludicrous, absurd, even to you, Mr Trotter, who are little 
younger than myself. Sir: if young people spoke to me 
like that, I should die of shame: I eould not faee it. I 
must go back. The world has passed me by and left me. 
Accept the apologies of an elderly and no donbt ridiculous 
admirer of the art of a bygone day, when there was still 
some beauty in the world and some delicate grace in 
family life. But I promised my daughter your opinion; 
and I must keep my word. Gentlemen: you are the 
choice and master spirits of this age: you walk through 


240 Fanny’s First Play 


it without bewilderment and face its strange products 
without dismay. Pray deliver your verdict. Mr Bannal: 
you know that it is the custom at a Court Martial for the 
youngest officer present to deliver his judgment first; so 
that he may not be influenced by the authority of his 
elders. You are the youngest. What is your opinion of 
the play? : 

Banna. Well, whos it by? 

TuE Count. That is a secret for the present. 

Banna. You dont expect me to know what to say 
about a play when I dont know who the author is, do you? 

THe Count. Why not? 

Bannat. Why not! Why not!! Suppose you had to 
write about a play by Pinero and one by Jones! Would 
you say exactly the same thing about them? 

THE Count. I presume not. 

BannaL. Then how could you write about them until 
you knew which was Pinero and which was Jones? Be- 
sides, what sort of play is this? thats what I want to know. 
Is it a comedy ora tragedy? Is ita farce or a melodrama? 
Is it repertory theatre tosh, or really straight paying stuff? 

GuNN. Cant you tell from seeing it? 

Banna. I can see it all right enough; but how am I to 
know how to take it? Is it serious, or is it spoof? If the 
author knows what his play is, let him tell us what it is. 
If he doesnt, he cant complain if I dont know either. J’m 
not the author. 

Tue Count. But is it a good play, Mr Bannal? Thats 
a simple question. 

BaNnNNAL. Simple enough when you know. If it’s by a 
good author, it’s a good play, naturally. That stands to 
reason. Who is the author? Tell me that; and Ill place 
the play for you to a hair’s breadth. 

Tue Count. I’m sorry I’m not at liberty to divulge the 
author’s name. The author desires that the play should 
be judged on its merits. 


Fanny’s First Play 241 


BannaL. But what merits can it have except the 
author’s merits? Who would you say it’s by, Gunn? 

Gunn. Well, who do you think? Here you have a 
rotten old-fashioned domestic melodrama acted by the 
usual stage puppets. The hero’s a naval licutenant. All 
melodramatic heroes are naval lieutenants. The heroine 
gets into trouble by defying the law (if she didnt get into 
trouble, thered be no drama) and plays for sympathy all 
the time as hard as she can. Her good old pious mother 
turns on her cruel father when hes going to put her out of 
the house, and says she'll go too. Then theres the comic 
relief: the comic shopkeeper, the comic shopkeeper’s 
wife, the comic footman who turns out to be a duke in 
disguise, and the young scapegrace who gives the author 
his excuse for dragging in a fast young woman. All as old 
and stale as a fried fish shop on a winter morning. 

Tue Count. But— 

Gunn [interrupting him] I know what youre going to 
say, Count. Youre going to say that the whole thing 
seems to you to be quite new and unusual and original. 
The naval lieutenant is a Frenchman who cracks up the 
English and runs down the French: the hackneyed old 
Shaw touch. The characters are second-rate middle class, 
instead of being dukes and millionaires. The heroine gets 
kicked through the mud: real mud. Theres no plot. All 
the old stage conventions and puppets without the old 
ingenuity and the old enjoyment. And a feeble air of 
intellectual pretentiousness kept up all through to per- 
suade you that if the author hasnt written a good play it’s 
because hes too clever to stoop to anything so common- 
place. And you three experienced men have sat through 
all this, and cant tell me who wrote it! Why, the play 
bears the author’s signature in every line. 

Banna. Who? 

Gunn. Granville Barker, of course. Why, old Gilbey 
is straight out of The Madras House. 


Q42 Fanny’s First Play 


BannaL. Poor old Barker! 

VauGHAN. Utter nonsense! Cant you see the differ- 
ence in style? 

BannaL. No. 

VAUGHAN [contemptuously} Do you know what style is? 

Banna. Well, [ suppose youd call Trotter’s uniform 
style. But it’s not my style—since you ask me. 

VAUGHAN. ‘To me it’s perfectly plain who wrote that 
play. To begin with, it’s intensely disagreeable. There- 
fore it’s not by Barrie, in spite of the footman, who’s 
ecribbed from The Admirable Crichton. He was an earl, 
you may remember. You notice, too, the author’s offen- 
sive habit of saying silly things that have no real sense in 
them when you come to examine them, just to set all the 
fools in the house giggling. ‘Then what does it all come to? 
An attempt to expose the supposed hypocrisy of the Puri- 
tan middle class in England: people just as good as the 
author, anyhow. With, of course, the inevitable improper 
female: the Mrs Tanqueray, Iris, and so forth. Well, if 
you cant recognize the author of that, youve mistaken 
your professions: thats all I have to say. 

Banna. Why are you so down on Pinero? And what 
about that touch that Gunn spotted? the Frenchman’s 
long speech. I believe it’s Shaw. 

Gunn. Rubbish! 

VAUGHAN. Rot! You may put that idea out of your 
head, Bannal. Poor as this play is, theres the note of 
passion in it. You feel somehow that beneath all the 
assumed levity of that poor waif and stray, she really 
loves Bobby and will be a good wife to him. Now Ive 
repeatedly proved that Shaw is physiologically incapable 
of the note of passion. 

BAaNNAL. Yes, I know. Intellect without emotion. 
Thats right. I always say that myself. A giant brain, if 
you ask me; but no heart. 

Gunn. Oh, shut up, Bannal. This crude medieval 


Fanny’s First Play 243 


psychology of heart and bratn—Shakespear would have 
called it liver and wits—is really sehoolboyish. Surely 
weve had enough of second-hand Sehopenhauer. Even 
such a played-out old back number as Ibsen would have 
been ashamed of it. Heart and brain, indeed! 

VAUGHAN. You have neither one nor the other, Guun. 
Youre deeadent. 

Gunn. Deeadent! How I love that early Vietorian 
word! 

VauGHAN. Well, at all events, you cant deny that the 
charaeters in this play were quite distinguishable from 
one another. That proves it’s not by Shaw, beeause all 
Shaw’s eharaeters are himself: mere puppets stuek up to 
spout Shaw. It’s only the actors that make them seem 
different. 

Banna. There ean be no doubt of that: everybody 
knows it. But Shaw doesnt write his plays as plays. All 
he wants to do is to insult everybody all round and set us 
talking about him. 

Trotter [wearily] And naturally, here we are all talking 
about him. For heaven’s sake, let us change the subject. 

VAUGHAN. Still, my articles about Shaw— 

Gunn. Oh, stow it, Vaughan. Drop it. What Ive 
always told you about Shaw is— 

BANNAL. There you go, Shaw, Shaw, Shaw! Do ehuck 
it. If you want to know my opinion about Shaw— 


TROTTER | No, please, we dont. 
VAUGHAN } [yelling], Shut your head, Bannal. 
GUNN Oh, do drop it. 


The deafened Count puts his fingers in his ears and flies 
from the centre of the group to its outskirts, behind Vaughan. 

Banna [sulkily] Oh, very well. Sorry I spoke, I’m 
sure. 

TROTTER Shaw— 

VAUGHAN ¢ [beginning again simultaneously] 5 Shaw— 

GUNN Shaw— 


244 Fanny’s First Play 


They are cut short by the entry of Fanny through the cur- 
tains. She is almost in tears. 

Fanny [coming between Trotter and'Gunn] I’m so sorry, 
gentlemen. And it was such a success when I read it to 
the Cambridge Fabian Society! 

Trotrer. Miss O’Dowda: I was about to tell these 
gentlemen what I guessed before the curtain rose: that 
you are the author of the play. [General amazement and 
consternation]. 

Fanny. And you all think it beastly. You hate it. 
You think I’m a conceited idiot, and that I shall never be 
able to write anything decent. 

She is almost weeping. A wave of sympathy carries away 
the critics. 

VauGHAN. No,no. Why, I was just saying that it must 
have been written by Pinero. Didnt I, Gunn? 

Fanny [enormously flattered] Really? 

Trotter. I thought Pinero was much too popular for 
the Cambridge Fabian Society. 

Fanny. Oh yes, of course; but still—Oh, did you really 
say that, Mr Vaughan? 

Gunn. I owe you an apology, Miss O’Dowda. I said 
it was by Barker. 

Fanny [radiant] Granville Barker! Oh, you couldnt 
really have thought it so fine as that. 

Banna. I said Bernard Shaw. 

Fanny. Ob, of course it would be a little like Bernard 
Shaw. The Fabian touch, you know. 

BANNAL [coming to her encouragingly| A jolly good little 
play, Miss O’Dowda. Mind: I dont say it’s like one of 
Shakespear’s—Hamlet or The Lady of Lyons, you know 
~-but still, a firstrate little bit of work. [He shakes her 
hand]. 

GuNN [following Bannal’s example) I also, Miss 
O’Dowda. Capital. Charming. [He shakes hands]. 

VAUGHAN [with maudlin solemnity] Only be true to your- 


Fanny’s First Play 245 


self, Miss O’Dowda. Keep serious. Give up making silly 
jokes. Sustain the note of passion. And youll do great 
things. 

Fanny. You think I have a future? 

Trotter. You have a past, Miss O’Dowda. 

Fanny [looking apprehensively at her father] Sh-sh-sh! 

Tue Count. A past! What do you mean, Mr Trotter? 

Trotter [to Fanny] You cant deceive me. That bit 
about the police was real. Youre a Suffraget, Miss 
O’Dowda. You were on that Deputation. 

Tue Count. Fanny: is this true? 

Fanny. It is. I did a month with Lady Constance 
Lytton; and I’m prouder of it than I ever was of anything 
or ever shall be again. 

Trottrer. Is that any reason why you should stuff 
naughty plays down my throat? 

Fanny. Yes: itll teach you what it feels like to be 
forcibly fed. 

THe Count. She will never return to Venice. I feel 
now as I felt when the Campanile fell. 

Savoyard comes in through the curtains. 

SAVOYARD [to the Count] Would you mind coming to say 
a word of congratulation to the company? Theyre rather 
upset at having had no curtain eall. 

Tue Count. Certainly, certainly. I’m afraid Ive been 
rather remiss. Let us go on the stage, gentlemen. 

The curtains are drawn, revealing the last scene of the play 
and the actors on the stage. The Count, Savoyard, the critics, 
and Fanny join them, shaking hands and congratulating. 

THe Count. Whatever we may think of the play, 
gentlemen, I’m sure you will agree with me that there can 
be only one opinion about the acting. 

Tue Critics. Hear, hear! [They start the applause}. 


Ayot St. LAWRENCE, March 1911. 

















wi EA 


000 436 736 3 







xa 
i ey 


x" 
Ha wd 


Cees ea 


mm SAAS TA: 
tee 
hate ae a 
A - . 

‘ 7 
Kory * a b - 


Wt tu 
ry *45'42 
han S 


“pee 
“e 

Te ee 
° ~ , 


- x a a ee 
: On ee ~*~ kw wie eae 


- ‘ 
x ; be 
= . 
"se ea 
< 35) a 7, a 
ae EA ELS Oe 
ee 5 f 
~~ . 
ai Se ke 4 


o * 


‘Va 






U 
ese — 





yer 0 7 ihe 





a. 
i Lee 
| © oer wD 

oD Sa le 
‘ 


ica 


EO 7 
a ta 





oo _. 
ee eee 
. . (<2 t- = 


—s) rin-- 7” n - 
A se 


oe et 


5 
Pe ASS eee 












- - 
sears es i” 


see ‘ 


A a ee 
eh Sel rie ae 
J ’ 

a 

ec 


Vi ie 
ae 





aa “ AS 


on 
tans 


- 


hy 


o 
oa 
1) 
C 
“ ' 
s* < 
. 
— 
* Y 
a 
‘ 
o 
fi 
i 
a D 


i, ee 
A 





s 70" 
~\ 
D 
~ th 

—-4 

fi 
‘ 
: ‘- 
i =ome 
echt ke- 
, ‘ 
» ’ 
hw 
7a 
. 
— 


* - 
en es 
ee a 


Fouts ie 

: ae a 
' 

SRA 
eh 











































- 


—— 


