Not get 
ei sy. 
¥ ae 


fe gation: a ‘Romance 
in Five Acts: Dye Bernard 
Shaw. BAe 


_~ 


ROUGH PROOF—UNPUBLISHED. | 


Ponstable and Eanes 
Ltd. London: 19 14, 


University of California - Berkeley 


Gift of 
LUCILE HEMING KOSHLAND 


and 


DANIEL EDWARD KOSHLAND 





"=~ 





Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2008 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/pygmalionplayinfoOshawrich 





Pygmalion: a Romance 
in Five Acts: by Bernard 
Shaw. 


ROUGH PROOF—UNPUBLISHED. 


Constable and Company 
Ltd. London: 1914. 


Copyright, G. Bernard Shaw, 1914. 
All rights reserved. 


ACT I 


Covent Garden at 11.15 p.m. Torrents of heavy summer 
rain. Cab whistles blowing frantically in all directions. Pedes- 
trians running for shelter into the market and under the portico 
of St. Paul's Church, where there are already several people, 
among them a lady and her daughter in evening dress. They are 
all peering out gloomily at the rain, except one man with bis back 
turned to the rest, who seems wholly preoccupied with a note- 
book in which he is writing busily. 

The church clock strikes the first quarter. 


THE DAUGHTER [in the space between the central pillars, close 
to the one on her left) I’m getting chilled to the bone. What 
can Freddy be doing all this time? Hes been gone twenty 
minutes. 

THE MOTHER [on her daughter's right] Not so long. But 
he ought to have got us a cab by this. 

A BYSTANDER [on the lady’s right] He wont get no cab not 
until half-past eleven, missus, when they come back after 
dropping their theatre fares. 

THE MOTHER. But we must have a cab. We cant stand 
here until half-past eleven. It’s too bad. 

THE BYSTANDER. Well, it aint my fault, missus. 

THE DauGHTER. If Freddy had a bit of gumption, he would 
have got one at the theatre door. 

THE MOTHER. What could he have done, poor. boyf 

THE DAUGHTER. Other people got cabs. Why couldnt he? 

B 


2 Pygmalion Act I 


Freddy rushes in out of the rain from the Southampton Street 
side, and comes between them closing a dripping umbrella. He 
is a young man of twenty, in evening dress, very wet round 
the ankles. 

THE DAUGHTER. Well, havnt you got a cab? 

FREDDY. ‘Theres not one to be had for love or money. 

THE MOTHER. Oh, Freddy, there must be one. You cant 
have tried. 

THE DAUGHTER. It’s too tiresome. Do you expect us to 
go and get one ourselves? 

FREDDY. I tell you theyre all engaged. The rain was so 
sudden: nobody was prepared; and everybody had to take 
a cab. Ive been to Charing Cross one way and nearly to 
Ludgate Circus the other; and they were all engaged. 

THE MOTHER. Did you try Trafalgar Square? 

FREDDY. There wasnt one at Trafalgar Square. 

THE DAUGHTER. Did you try? 

FREDDY. I tried as far as Charing Cross Station. Did you 
expect me to walk to Hammersmith? 

THE DAUGHTER. You havnt tried at all. 

THE MOTHER. You really are very helpless, Freddy. Go 
again ; and dont come back until you have found a cab. 

FREDDY. I shall simply get soaked for nothing. 

THE DAUGHTER. And what about us? Are we to stay here 
all night in this draught, with next to nothing on. You 
selfish pig— 

rreppy. Oh, very well: Dll go, I'l] go. [He opens bis um- 
brella and dashes off Strandwards, but comes into collision with 
a flower girl, who is hurrying in for shelter, knocking her basket 
out of her hands. A blinding flash of lightning, followed instantly 
by a rattling peal of thunder, orchestrates the incident]. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Nah then, Freddy: look wh’ y’ gowin’ 
deah. 

FREDDY. Sorry [Ae rushes off |. 

‘THE FLOWER GIRL [ picking up Ler scattered flowers and re- 
placing them in the basket) Theres menners t’ yer! Te-oo 
banches o voylets trod into the mad. [Sse sits dowm on 


Act I Pygmalion 3 


the plinth of the column, sorting her flowers, on the lady’s right. 
She is not at all an attractive person. She is perhaps eighteen, 
perhaps twenty, hardly older. She wears a little sailor hat of 
black straw that has long been exposed to the dust and soot of 
Loudon and has seldom if ever been brushed. Her hair needs 
washing rather badly: its mousy color can hardly be natural. 
She wears a shoddy black coat that reaches nearly to her knees 
and is shaped to her waist. She has a brown skirt with a 
coarse apron. Her boots are much the worse for wear. She is 
no doubt as clean as she can afford to be; but compared to the 
ladies she is very dirty. Her features are no worse than theirs ; 
but their condition leaves something to be desired; and she needs 
the services of a dentist). 

THE MOTHER. How do you know that my son’s name is 
Freddy, pray? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Ow, eez ye-ooa san, is e? Wal, fewd 
. dan y’ de-ooty bawmz a mather should, eed now bettern to 
spawl a pore gel’s flahrzn than ran awy athaht pyin. Will 
ye-oo py me f’them? [Here, with apologies, this desperate 
attempt to represent her dialect without a phonetic alphabet must 
be abandoned as unintelligible outside London). 

THE DAUGHTER. Do nothing of the sort, mother. The 
idea ! 

THE MOTHER. Please allow me, Clara. Have you any 
pennies? 

THE DAUGHTER. No. Ive nothing smaller than six- 
pence. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [/opefully| I can give you change for a 
tanner, kind lady. 

THE MOTHER [to Clara] Give it to me. [C/ara parts re- 
luctantly|. Now [to te girt] This is for your flowers. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Thank you kindly, lady. 

THE DAUGHTER. Make her give you the change. These 
things are only a penny a bunch. 

THE MOTHER. Do hold your tongue, Clara. [To the gir/] 
You can keep the change. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Oh, thank you, lady. 


4 Pygmalion Act I 

THE MOTHER. Now tell me how you know that young 
gentleman’s name. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. I didnt. 

THE MOTHER. I heard you call him by it. Dont try to 
deceive me. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [ protesting | Whos trying to deceive you? 
I called him Freddy or Charlie same as you might yourself 
if you was talking to a stranger and wished to be pleasant. 
[She sits down beside her basket]. 

THE DAUGHTER. Sixpence thrown away! Really, mamma, 
you might have spared Freddy that. [Sé4e retreats in disgust 
behind the pillar]. 

An elderly gentleman of the amiable military type rushes into 
shelter, and closes a dripping umbrella. He is in the same plight 
as Freddy, very wet about the ankles. He is in evening dress, 
with a light overcoat. He takes the place left vacant by the 
daughter's retirement. 

THE GENTLEMAN. Phew! 

THE MOTHER [fo the gentleman] Oh, sir, is there any sign 
of its stopping? 

THE GENTLEMAN. I’m afraid not. It started worse than 
ever about two minutes ago [4e goes to the phinth beside the 
flower girl; puts up his foot on it; and stoops to turn down his 
trouser ends). 

THE MOTHER. Oh dear! [She retires sadly and joins her 
daughter}. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [taking advantage of the military gentk- 
man’ 5 proximity to establish friendly relations with him] If 
it’s worse, it’s a sign it’s nearly over. So cheer up, Captain ; 
and buy a flower off a poor girl. 

THE GENTLEMAN. I’m sorry. I havnt any change. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. I can give you change, Captain. 

THE GENTLEMAN. For a sovereign? Ive nothing less. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Garn! Oh do buy a flower off me, 
Captain. I can change half-a-crown. Take this for tup- 
pence. 

THE GENTLEMAN. Now dont be troublesome : theres a good 


Act I Pygmalion 5 
girl. [Trying his pockets] | really havnt any change—Stop: 
heres three hapence, if thats any use to you [4e retreats to 
the other pillar}. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [disappointed, but thinking three halfpence 
better than nothing| ‘Thank you, sir. 

THE BYSTANDER [fo t4e gir/| You be careful: give hima 
flower for it. Theres a bloke here behind taking down every 
blessed word youre saying. [4// turn to the man who is taking 
notes}. 

a FLOWER GIRL [ Springing up terrified | laint donenothing 
wrong by speaking to the gentleman. Ive a right to sell 
flowers if I keep off the kerb. [Hysterically} I’m a respect- 
able girl: so help me, I never spoke to him except to ask 
him to buy a flower off me. [General hubbub, mostly sympa- 
thetic to the flower girl, but deprecating her excessive sensibility. 
Cries of Dont start hollerin. Who’s hurting you? Nobody’s 
going to touch you. Whats the good of fussing? Steady 
on. Easy easy, etc., come from the elderly staid spectators, who 
pat her comfortingly. Less patient ones bid her shut her head, 
or ask her roughly what is wrong with ber. A remoter group, 
not knowing what the matter is, crowd in and increase the 
noise with question and answer: Whats the row? Whatshe 
do? Where is he? A tec taking her down. What! him? 
Yes: him over there: Took money off the gentleman, etc. 
The flower girl, distraught and mobbed, breaks through them to 
the gentleman, crying wildly) Oh, sir, dont let him charge 
me. You dunno what it theans to me. Theyll take away 
my character and drive me on the streets for speaking to 
gentlemen. They— 

THE NOTE TAKER [coming forward on her right, the rest crowd- 
ing after him|'There, there, there, there! whos hurting you, 
you silly girl? What do you take me for? 

THE BYSTANDER. It’s all right: hes a gentleman: look at 
his boots. [Explaining to the note taker| She thought you 
was a2 copper’s nark, sir. 


THE NOTE TAKER [7vith quick interest] Whats a copper’s 
nark ? 


6 Pygmalion Act I 


THE BYSTANDER [inapt at definition] Its a—vwell, it’s a 
copper’s nark, as you might say. What else would you call 
it? A sort of informer. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [stil] systerical] I take my Bible oath I 
never said a word— 

THE NOTE TAKER [overbearing but good-humored| Oh, shut 
up, shut up. Do I look like a policeman? 

THE FLOWER GIRL [ far from reassured | Then what did you 
take down my words for? How do I know whether you 
took me down right? You just shew me what youve wrote 
about me. [The note taker opens his book and holds it steadily 
under her nose, though the pressure of the mob trying to read it 
over his shoulders would upset a weaker man|. Whats that? 
That aint proper writing. I cant read that. 

THE NOTE TAKER. I can. [Reads, reproducing her pronuncia- 
tion exactly] “Cheer ap, Keptin; n’ baw ya flahr orf a 
pore gel.” 

THE FLOWER GIRL [much distressed] It’s because I called 
him Captain. I meant no harm. [7 the gentleman] Oh, sir, 
dont let him lay a charge agen me for a word like that. 
You— 

THE GENTLEMAN. Charge! I make no charge. [To the 
note taker] Really, sir, if you are a detective, you need 
not begin protecting me against molestation by young 
women until I ask you. Anybody could see that the girl 
meant no harm. 

THE BYSTANDERS GENERALLY [demonstrating against police 
espionage| Course they could. What business is it of yours? 
You mind your own affairs. He wants promotion, he does. 
Taking down people’s words! Girl never said a word to him. 
What harm if she did? Nice thing a girl cant shelter 
from the rain without being insulted, etc., etc., etc. [She és 
conducted by the more sympathetic demonstrators back to ber 
plinth, where she resumes her seat and struggles with her 
emotion |. 

THE BYSTANDER. He aint a tec. He’sa blooming busybody: 
thats what he is. I tell you, look at his boots. 


Act I Pygmalion 9 


THE NOTE TAKER [turaing on him genially| And how are all 
your people down at Selsey? 

THE BYSTANDER [séspiciously] Who told you my people 
come from Selsey? 

THE NOTE TAKER. Never you mind. They did. [To ¢/e 
girl| How do you come to be up so far east? You were 
born in Lisson Grove. 

THE FLOWER G1RL [appalled] Oh, what harm is there in 
my leaving Lisson Grove? It wasnt fit for a pig to live in; 
and I had to pay four-and-six a week. [Jz tears] Oh, boo 
—hoo—oo— 

THE NOTE TAKER. Live where you like ; but stop that noise. 

THE GENTLEMAN [fo the gir/] Come, come! he cant touch 
you: you have a right to live where you please. 

A SARCASTIC BYSTANDER [thrusting himself between the note 
taker and the gentleman| Park Lane, for instance. Id like 
to go into the Housing Question with you, I would. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [s“bsiding into a brooding melancholy over 
her basket, and talking very iow-spiritedly to herself} Vma 
good girl, [ am. 

THE SARCASTIC BYSTANDER [not attending to her| Do you 
know where J come from? 

THE NOTE TAKER [promptly] Hoxton. 

Titterings. Popular interest in the note taker’s performance 
increases. 

THE SARCASTIC ONE [amazed | Well, who said I didnt? Bly 
me! You know everything, you do. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [sti// nursing her sense of injury| Aint no 
call to meddle with me, he aint. 

THE BYSTANDER [fo Jer] Of course he aint. Dont you stand 
it from him. [To the note taker] See here: what call have 
you to know about people what never offered to meddle 
with you? Wheres your warrant? 

SEVERAL BYSTANDERS [encouraged by this seeming point of law] 
Yes: wheres your warrant? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Let him say what he likes. [ dont want 
to have no truck with him. 


8 Pygmalion Act I 


THE BYSTANDER. You take us for dirt under your feet, dont 
you? Catch you taking liberties with a gentleman! 

THE SARCASTIC BYSTANDER. Yes: tell him where he come 
from if you want to go fortune-telling. 

THE NOTE TAKER. Cheltenham, Harrow, Cambridge, and 
India. 

THE GENTLEMAN. Quite right. [Great laughter. Reaction 
in the note taker’s favor. Exclamations of He knows all about 
it. Told him proper. Hear him teli the toff where he come 
from? etc.]. May I ask, sir, do you do this for your living 
at a music hall? 

THE NOTE TAKER. Ive thought of that. Perhaps I shall 
some day. 

The rain has stopped; and the persons on the outside of the 
crowd begin to drop off. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [resenting the reaction] He’s no gentle- 
man, he aint, to interfere with a poor girl. 

THE DAUGHTER [out of patience, pushing her way rudely to 
the front and displacing the gentleman, who politely retires 
to the other side of the pillar) What on earth is Freddy 
doing? I shall get pneumonia if I stay in this draught any 
longer. 

THE NOTE TAKER [fo himself, hastily making a note of her 
pronunciation of “‘monia’’| Earlscourt. 

THE DAUGHTER [violently] Will you please keep your im- 
pertinent remarks to yourself. 

THE NOTE TAKER. Did I say that out loud? I didnt mean 
to. I beg your pardon. Your mother’s Epsom, unmistake- 
ably. 

THE MOTHER [advancing between her daughter and the note 
taker| How very curious! I was brought up in Largelady 
Park, near Epsom. 

THE NOTE TAKER [uproariously amused] Ha! ha! What a 
devil of a name! Excuse me. [To the daughter] You want 
a cab, do you? 

THE DAUGHTER. Dont dare speak to me. 

THE MOTHER. Oh please, please, Clara. [Her daughter 


Act I Pygmalion 9 


repudiates her with an angry shrug and retires haughtily|. We 
should be so grateful to you, sir, if you found us a cab, 
[The note taker produces a whistle}. Oh, thank you. [S4e 
joins her daughter). 

The note taker blows a piercing blast. 

THE SARCASTIC BYSTANDER. There! I knowed he was a 
plain-clothes copper. 

THE BYSTANDER. That aint a police whistle: thats a sport- 
ing whistle. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [still preoccupied with her wounded feel- 
ings| Hes no right to take away my character. My character 
is the same to me as any lady’s. 

THE NOTE TAKER. I dont know whether youve noticed it; 
but the rain stopped about two minutes ago. 

THE BYSTANDER. Soit has. Why didnt you say so before? 
and us losing our time listening to your silliness! [He walks 
off towards the Strand]. 

THE SARCASTIC BYSTANDER. I can tell where you come 
from. You come from Anwell. Go back there. 

THE NOTE TAKER [Ae/pfully| Hanwell. 

THE SARCASTIC BYSTANDER [affecting great distinction of 
speech| Thenk you, teacher. Haw haw! So long [fe toucles 
his hat with mock respect and strolls off}. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Frightening people like that! How 
would he like it himself? 

THE MOTHER It’s quite fine now, Clara. We can walk to 
a motor bus. Come. [S4e gathers her skirts above her ankles 
and hurries off towards the Strand). 

THE DAUGHTER. But the cab—[Aer mother is out of hearing |. 
Oh, how tiresome! [Se follows angrily]. 

All the rest have gone except the note taker, the gentleman, 
and the flower girl, who sits arranging Fer basket, and still pity- 
ing herself in murmurs. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Poor girl! Hard enough for her to live 
without being worrited and chivied. 

THE GENTLEMAN [returning to his former place on the note 
taker’s left) How do you do it, if I may ask? 


IO Pygmalion Act I 


THE NOTE TAKER. Simply phonetics, The science of 
speech. Thats my profession: also my hobby. Happy is 
the man who can make a living by his hobby! You can 
spot an Irishman or a Yorkshireman by his brogue. J can 
place any man within six miles. I can place him within two 
miles in London. Sometimes within two streets. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Ought to be ashamed of himself, un- 
manly coward! 

THE GENTLEMAN. But is there a living in that? 

THE NOTE TAKER. Oh yes. Quite a fat one. This is an age 
of upstarts. Men begin in Kentish Town with £80 a year, 
and end in Park Lane with a hundred thousand. They 
want to drop Kentish ‘Town; but they give themselves 
away every time they open their mouths. Now I can teach 
them— 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Let him mind his own business and 
leave a poor girl— 

THE NOTE TAKER [explosively] Woman: cease this detest- 
able boohooing instantly; or else seek the shelter of some 
other place of worship. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [with feeble defiance| Ive a right to be 
here if I like, same as you. 

THE NOTE TAKER. A woman who utters such depressing 
and disgusting sounds has no right to be anywhere—no 
right to live. Remember that you are a human being with 
a soul and the divine gift of articulate speech: that your 
native language is the language of Shakespear and Milton 
and The Bible; and dont sit there crooning like a bilious 
pigeon. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [gaite overwhelmed, looking up at him in 
mingled wonder and deprecation without daring to raise her 
head | Ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-ow-oo ! 

THE NOTE TAKER [whipping out his book] Heavens! what 
asound! [He writes; then holds out the book and reads, re- 
producing her vowels exactly| Ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-ow-oo ! 

THE FLOWER GiRL [tickled by the performance, and laughing 
in spite of herse/f| Garn ! 


Act I Pygmalion é Ter 


THE NOTE TAKER. You see this creature with her kerb- 
stone English: the English that will keep her in the gutter 
to the end of her days. Well, sir, in three months I could 
pass that girl off as a duchess at an ambassador’s garden 
party. I could even get her a place as lady’s maid or shop 
assistant, which requires better English. Thats the sort of 
thing I do for commercial millionaires. And on the 
profits of it I do genuine scientific work in phonetics, 
and a little as a poet on Miltonic lines. 

THE GENTLEMAN. I am myself a student of Indian dia- 
lects ; and— 

THE NOTE TAKER [éager/y] Are you? Do you know Colonel 
Pickering, the author of Spoken Sanscrit? 

THE GENTLEMAN. I am Colonel Pickering. Who are you? 

THE NOTE TAKER. Henry Higgins, author of Higgins’s 
Universal Alphabet. 

PICKERING [with enthusiasm] 1 came from India to meet 
you. 

Hiccins. I was going to India to meet you. 

PICKERING. Where do you live? 

HIGGINS. 274 Wimpole Street. Come and see me to- 
morrow. 

PICKERING. I’m at the Carlton. Come with me now and 
lets have a jaw over some supper. 

HIGGINS. Right you are. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [fo Pickering, as he passes her] Buy a 
flower, kind gentleman. I’m short for my lodging. 

PickERING. I really havnt any change. I’m sorry [4¢ 
goes away}. 

Hiccins [shocked at the girl’s mendacity| Liar. You said 
you could change half-a-crown. 

THE FLOWER GIRL [rising in desperation] You ought to be 
stuffed with nails, you ought. [Féinging the basket at his 
feet] Take the whole blooming basket for sixpence. 

The church clock strikes the second quarter. 

Hicains [hearing in it the voice of God, rebuking him for 
his Pharisaic want of charity to the poor girl| A reminder. 


12 Pygmalion Act I 


[He raises his hat solemnly; then throws a handful of money into 
the basket and follows Pickering). 

THE FLOWER GIRL [ picking up a half-crown| Ah-ow-ooh! 
[Picking up a couple of florins] Aaah-ow-ooh! [Picking up 
several coins| Aaaaaah-ow-ooh! [Picking up a half-sovereign| 
Aaaaaaaaaaaah-ow-ooh ! !! 

FREDDY [springing out of a taxicab| Got one at last. 
Hallo! [Zo the gir/] Where are the two ladies that were 
here? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. They walked to the bus when the 
rain stopped. 

FreDDY. And left me with a cab on my hands! Damna- 
tion! 

THE FLOWER GIRL [with grandeur] Never you mind, young 
man. J’m going home in a taxi. [She sails off to the cab. 
The driver puts his hand behind him and holds the door firmly 
shut against her. Quite understanding his mistrust, she shews 
him her handful of money]. Eightpence aint no object 
to me, Charlie. [He grins and opens the door]. Angel 
Court, Drury Lane, round the corner of Micklejohn’s oil 
shop. Lets see how fast you can make her hop it. [S4e 
gets in and pulls the door to with a slam as the taxicab starts). 

FREDDY. Well, I’m dashed! 


ACT Il 


Next day at 11 a.m, Higgins’s laboratory in Wimpole 
Street. It is a room on the first floor, looking on the street, and 
was meant for the drawing-room. The double doors are in the 
middle of the back wall; and persons entering find in the 
corner to their right two tall file cabinets at right angles to 
one another against the walls. In this corner stands a flat 
writing-table, on which are a phonograph, a laryngoscope, a 
row of tiny organ pipes with a bellows, a set of lamp chimneys 
for singing flames with burners attached to a gas plug in the 
wall by an indiarubber tube, several tuning-forks of different 
sizes, a life-size image of half a human head, shewing in section 
the vocal organs, and a box containing a supply of wax cylinders 
for the phonograph. 

Further down the room, on the same side, is a fireplace, with 
a comfortable leather-covered easy-chair at the side of the hearth 
nearest the door, and a coal-scuttle. There is a clock on the 
mantelpiece. Between the fireplace and the phonograph table 
1s a stand for newspapers. 

On the other side of the central door, to the left of the visitor, 
is a cabinet of shallow drawers. On it is a telephone and the tele- 
phone directory. The corner beyond, and most of the side wall, 
ts occupied by a grand piano, with the keyboard at the end 
furthest from the door, and a bench for the player extending 
the full length of the keyboard. On the piano is a dessert dish 
heaped with fruit and sweets, mostly chocolates. 

The middle of the room is clear. Besides the easy-chair, the 


13 


14 Pygmalion Act II 


piano bench, and two chairs at the phonograph table, there 
is one stray chair. It stands near the fireplace. On the walls, 
engravings: mostly Piranesis and mezzotint portraits. No 
paintings. 

Pickering is seated at the table, putting down some cards and 
a tuning-fork which he has been using. Higgins is standing up 
near him, closing two or three file drawers which are hanging 
out. He appears in the morning light as a robust, vital, 
appetizing sort of man of forty or thereabouts, dressed in a 
professional-looking black frock-coat with a white linen collar 
and black silk tie. He is of the energetic, scientific type, 
heartily, even violently interested in everything that can be 
studied as a scientific subject, and careless about himself and 
other people, including their feelings. He is, in fact, but for 
bis years and size, rather like a very impetuous baby “taking 
notice” eagerly and loudly, and requiring almost as much watch- 
ing to keep him out of unintended mischief. His manner varies 
Srom genial bullying when he is in a good humor to stormy 
petulance when anything goes wrong; but he is so entirely 
SJrank ana void of malice that he remains likeable even in his 
least reasonable moments. 


Hiccins [as he shuts the last drawer} Well, I think thats 
the whole show. 

PICKERING. It’s really amazing. I havnt taken half of it 
in, you know. 

HiccIns. Would you like to go over any of it again? 

PICKERING [rising and coming to the fireplace, where he plants 
himself with his back to the fire} No, thank you; not now. 
I’m quite done up for this morning. 

Hiccins [following him, and standing beside him on his left] 
Tired of listening to sounds? 

PICKERING. Yes. It’s a fearful strain. I rather fancied 
myself because I can pronounce twenty-four distinct vowel 
sounds; but your hundred and thirty beat me. J cant hear 
a bit of difference between most of them. 

HIGGINS [chuckling, and going over to the piano to eat sweets] 


Act II Pygmalion 15 


Oh, that comes with practice. You hear no difference at 
first; but you keep on listening, and presently you find 
theyre all as different as A from B. [Mrs Pearce looks in: 
she is Higgins’s housekeeper]. Whats the matter? 

Mrs PEARCE [hesitating, evidently perplexed| A young 
woman wants to see you, sir. 

HiGcINs. A young woman! What does she want? 

mrs PEARCE. Well, sir, she says youll be glad to see her 
when you know what shes come about. Shes quite a 
common girl, sir. Very common indeed. I should have 
sent her away, only I thought perhaps you wanted her to 
talk into your machines. I hope Ive not done wrong; but 
really you see such queer people sometimes—youll excuse 
me, I’m sure, sir— 

wiccins. Oh, thats all right, Mrs Pearce. Has she an 
interesting accent? 

Mrs PEARCE. Oh, something dreadful, sir, really. I dont 
know how you can take an interest in it. 

Hiccins [to Pickering] Lets have her up. Shew her up, 
Mrs Pearce [4e rushes across to his working table and picks 
out a cylinder to use on the phonograph). 

mrs PEARCE [only half resigned to it) Very well, sir. Its 
for you to say. [Ste goes downstairs]. 

Hiccins. This is rather a bit of luck. I'll shew you how 
I make records. We'll set her talking; and I’ll take it 
down first in Bell’s visible Speech; then in broad Romic; 
and then we’ll get her on the phonograph so that you can 
turn her on as often as you like with the written transcript 
before you. 

MRS PEARCE [returning| This is the young woman, sir. 

The flower girl enters in state. She has a hat with three 
ostrich feathers, orange, sky-blue, and red. She has a nearly clean 
apron, and the shoddy coat has been tidicd a littl. The pathos 
of this deplorable figure, with its innocent vanity and conse- 
quential air, touches Pickering, who has already straightened 
himself in the presence of Mrs Pearce. But as to Higgins, 
the only distinction he makes between men and women is that 


16 Pygmalion Act ll 


when be is neither bullying nor exclaiming to the heavens 
against some featherweight cross, he coaxes women as a child 
coaxes its nurse when it wants to get anything out of her. 

HIGGINS [brusquely, recognizing her with unconcealed dis- 
appointment, and at once, babylike, making an intolerable 
grievance of it} Why, this is the girl I jotted down last 
night. Shes no use: Ive got all the records I want of the 
Lisson Grove lingo; and I’m not going to waste another 
cylinder on it. [To the girl] Be off with you: I dont want 
you. 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Dont you be so saucy. You aint heard 
what I come for yet. [Zo Mrs Pearce, who is waiting at the 
door for further instructions| Did you tell him I come in a 
taxi? 

mrs PEARCE. Nonsense, girl! what do you think a gentle- 
man like Mr Higgins cares what you came in? 

THE FLOWER GirRL. Oh, we are proud! He aint above 
giving lessons, not him: I heard him say so. Well, I aint 
come here to ask for any compliment; and if my money’s 
not good enough I can go elsewhere. 

Hiccins. Good enough for what? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Good enough for ye-oo. Now you 
know, dont you? I’m come to have lessons, I am. And 
to pay for em too: make no mistake. 

Hiccins [stupent] Well!!! [Recovering bis breath with a 
gasp| What do you expect me to say to you? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Well, if you was a gentleman, you 
might ask me to sit down, I think. Dont I tell you I’m 
bringing you business? 

HicciIns. Pickering: shall we ask this baggage to sit 
down, or shall we throw her out of the window? 

THE FLOWER GIRL [running away in terror to the piano, 
where she turns at bay| Ah-ah-oh-ow-ow-ow-00! [Wounded 
and whimpering] 1 wont be called a baggage when Ive 
offered to pay like any lady. 

Motionless, the two men stare at her from the other side of the 
room, amazed. 


Act II Pygmalion 17 


PICKERING [gently] What is it you want, my girl? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. I want to be a lady in a flower shop 
stead of selling at the corner of Tottenham Court Road. 
But they wont take me unless I can talk more genteel. 
He said he could teach me. Well, here I am ready to pay 
him—not asking any favor—and he treats me as if I was 
dirt. 

MRs PEARCE. How can you be such a foolish ignorant girl 
as to think you could afford to pay Mr Higgins? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Why shouldnt I? I know what lessons 
cost as well as you do; and I’m ready to pay. 

Hiccins. How much? 

THE FLOWER GIRL [coming back to him, triumphant} Now 
youre talking! I thought youd come off it when you saw 
a chance of getting back a bit of what you chucked at me 
last night. [Confidentially] Youd had a drop in, hadnt you? 

HIGGINS [peremptorily] Sit down. 

THE FLOWER GIRL, Oh, if youre going to make a compli- 
ment of it— 

HIGGINS [thundering at her| Sit down. 

MRS PEARCE [severely] Sit down, girl. Do as youre told. 
[She places the stray chair near the hearthrug between Higgins and 
Pickering, and stands behind it waiting for the girl to sit down). 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-oo! [She stands, half 
rebelhous, half bewildered). 

PICKERING [very courteous| Wont you sit down? 

Liza [coy/y] Dont mind if I do. [She sits down. Pickering 
returns to the hearthrug). 

Hiccins. Whats your name? 

THE FLOWER GIRL. Liza Doolittle. 

HIGGINS [declaiming gravely] 


Eliza, Elizabeth, Betsy and Bess, 
They went to the woods to get a bird’s nes’: 
PICKERING. They found a nest with four eggs in it: 


HIGGINS. They took one apiece, and left three in it. 


They laugh heartily at their own wit. 


18 Pygmalion Act Il 
u1za. Oh, dont be silly. 


MRS PEARCE. You mustnt speak to the gentleman like that. 

tiza. Well, why wont he speak sensible to me? 

HiccIns. Come back to business. How much do you 
propose to pay me for the lessons? 

Liza. Oh, I know whats right. A lady friend of mine 
gets French lessons for eighteenpence an hour from a real 
French gentleman. Well, you wouldnt have the face to 
ask me the same for teaching me my own language as you 
would for French; so I wont give more than a shilling. 
Take it or leave it. 

HIGGINS [walking up and down the room, rattling his keys 
and his cash in his pockets} You know, Pickering, if you 
consider a shilling, not as a simple shilling, but as a per- 
centage of this girl’s income, it works out as fully equiva- 
lent to sixty or seventy guineas from a millionaire. 

PICKERING. How so? 

Hiccins. Figure it out. A millionaire has about £150 a 
day. She earns about half-a-crown. 

Liza [aughtily] Who told you I only— 

Hiccins [continuing] She offers me two-fifths of her day’s 
income for a lesson. Two-fifths of a millionaire’s income 
for a day would be somewhere about £60. It’s handsome. 
By George, it’s enormous! it’s the biggest offer I ever had. 

uiza [rising, terrified] Sixty pounds! What are you talk- 
ing about? I never offered you sixty pounds. Where 
would I get— 

niccins. Hold your tongue. 

Liza [weeping] But I aint got sixty pounds. Oh— 

mrs PEARCE. Dont cry, you silly girl. Sit down. No- 
body is going to touch your money. 

HiccINs. Somebody is going to touch you, with a broom- 
stick, if you dont stop snivelling. Sit down. 

uiza [obeying slowly| Ah-ah-ah-ow-oo-o! One would 
think you was my father. 

nicoins. If I decide to teach you, I’ll be worse than two 
fathers to you. Here [Ae offers her his silk handkerchief |! 


Act II Pygmalion 19 


tiza. Whats this for? 

HIGGINS. ‘To wipe your eyes. To wipe any part of your 
face that feels moist. Remember: thats your handkerchief ; 
and thats your sleeve. Dont mistake the one for the other 
if you wish to become a lady in a shop. 

Liza, utterly bewildered, stares helplessly at him. 

MRS PEARCE. It’s no use talking to her like that, Mr 
Higgins: she doesnt understand you. Besides, youre 
quite wrong: she doesnt do it that way at all [she takes the 
handkerchief |. 

Liza [snatching it) Here! You give me that handkerchief. 
He give it to me, not to you. 

PICKERING [/aughing] He did. I think it must be regarded 
as her property, Mrs Pearce. 

MRS PEARCE | resigning herself | Serve you right, Mr Higgins. 

PICKERING. Higgins: I’m interested. What about the 
ambassador’s garden party? I’]] say youre the greatest 
teacher alive if you make that good. I'll bet you all the 
expenses of the experiment you cant do it. And I’ll pay 
for the lessons. 

L1za. Oh, you are real good. Thank you, Captain. 

Hiccins [tewpted, looking at her} It’s almost irresistible. 
She’s so deliciously low—so horribly dirty— 

Liza [ protesting extremely} Ah-ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-oo-00!!! 
Taint dirty : I washed my face and hands afore I come, J did. 

PICKERING. Youre certainly not going to turn her head 
with flattery, Higgins. 

MRS PEARCE [xveasy] Oh, dont say that, sir: theres 
more ways than one of turning a girl’s head ; and nobody 
can do it better than Mr Higgins, though he may not 
always mean it. I do hope, sir, you wont encourage him to 
do anything foolish. 

Hiccins [Jecoming excited as the idea grows on him] What 
is life but a series of inspired follies? The difficulty is to 
find them to do. Never lose a chance: it doesnt come 
everyday. I shall make a duchess of this draggletailed 
guttersnipe. 


20 Pygmalion Act II 


LIZA [strongly deprecating this view of her) Ah-ah-ah-ow- 
ow-oo ! 

HiGGINs [carried away| Yes : in six months—in three if 
she has a good ear and a quick tongue—I’ll take her any- 
where and pass her off as anything. We'll start to-day: 
now! this moment! Take her away and clean her, Mrs 
Pearce. Monkey Brand, if it wont come off any other 
way. Is there a good fire in the kitchen? 

MRS PEARCE [protesting]. Yes; but— 

HIGGINS [storming on] ‘Take all her clothes off and burn 
them. Ring up Whiteley or somebody for new ones. Wrap 
her up in brown paper til they come. 

Liza. Youre no gentleman, youre not, to talk of such 
things. I’m a good girl, 1am; and I know what the like 
of you are, I do. 

HIccIns. We want none of your Lisson Grove prudery 
here, young woman. Youve got to learn to behave like a 
duchess, Take her away, Mrs Pearce. If she gives you any 
trouble, wallop her. 

Liza [springing up and running between Pickering and Mrs 
Pearce for protection] No! Ill call the police, I will. 

MRs PEARCE. But Ive no place to put her. 

HicGINs. Put her in the dustbin. 

u1zA. Ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-oo! 

PICKERING. Oh come, Higgins! be reasonable. 

Mrs PEARCE [resolutely] You must be reasonable, Mr 
Higgins: really you must. You cant walk over everybody 
like this. ) 

Higgins, thus scolded, subsides. The hurricane is succeeded 
by a xephyr of amiable surprise. 

HIGGINS [with professional exguisiteness of modulation] I 
walk over everybody! My dear Mrs Pearce, my dear 
Pickering, I never had the slightest intention of walking 
over anyone. All I propose is that we should be kind to 
this poor girl. We must help her to prepare and fit herself 
for her new station in life. If I did not express myself clearly 
it was because I did not wish to hurt her delicacy, or yours. 


Act II Pygmalion 21 


Liza, reassured, steals back to her chair. 

MRS PEARCE [to Pickering] Well, did you ever hear any- 
thing like that, sir? 

PICKERING [laughing heartily] Never, Mrs Pearce: never. 

HicGins [patiently] Whats the matter? 

MRS PEARCE. Well, the matter is, sir, that you cant take 
a girl up like that as if you were picking up a pebble on 
the beach. 

HiccIns. Why not? 

MRS PEARCE, Why not! But you dont know anything 
about her. What about her parents? She may be married. 

Liza. Garn! 

Hiccins. There! As the girl very properly says, Garn! 
Married indeed! Dont you know that a woman of that 
class looks a worn out drudge of fifty a year after shes 
married? 

L1zA. Whood marry me? 

HicGins [suddenly resorting to the most thrillingly beautiful 
low tones in his best elocutionary style] By George, Eliza, the 
streets will be strewn with the bodies of men shooting 
themselves for your sake before Ive done with you. 

MRS PEARCE. Nonsense, sir. You mustnt talk like that 
to her. 

uiza [rising and squaring herself determinedly| Ym going 
away. He’s off his chump, he is. I dont want no balmies 
teaching me. 

HicGins [wounded in his tenderest point by her insensibility 
to his elocution] Oh, indeed! I’m mad, am I? Very well, 
Mrs Pearce: you neednt order the new clothes for her. 
Throw her out. 

Liza [whimpering | Nah-ow. van got no right to touch me. 

MRS PEARCE. You see now what comes of being saucy. 
{Indicating the door | ‘This way, please. 

Liza [almost in tears] 1 didnt want no clothes. I wouldnt 
have taken them [she throws away the handkerchief]. 1 can 
buy my own clothes. 

HicGins [deftly retrieving the handkerchief and intercepting 


22 Pygmalion Act II 


her on her reluctant way tothe door| Youre an ungrateful wicked 
girl. ‘his is my return for offering to take you out of the 
gutter and dress you beautifully and make a lady of you. 

MRS PEARCE. Stop, Mr. Higgins. I wont allow it. It’s 
you that are wicked. Go home to your parents, girl ; and 
tell them to take better care of you. 

Liza. I aint got no parents. They told me I was big 
enough to earn my own living and turned me out. | 

MRS PEARCE. Wheres your mother? 

uiza. I aint got no mother. Her that turned me out 
was my sixth stepmother. But I done without them. And 
I’m a good girl, I am. | 

Hiccins. Very well, then, what on earth is all this fuss 
about? ‘The girl doesnt belong to anybody—is no use to 
anybody but me. [He goes to Mrs Pearce and begins coax- 
ing.| You can adopt her, Mrs Pearce: I’m sure a daughter 
would be a great amusement to you. Now dont make any 
more fuss. Take her downstairs; and— 

MRS PEARCE. But whats to become of her? Is she to be 
paid anything? Do be sensible, sir. 

Hiccins. Oh, pay her whatever is necessary : put it down 
in the housekeeping book. [Jmpatient/y| What on earth 
will she want with money? She’ll have her food and her 
clothes. She'll only drink if you give her money. 

Liza [turning on him] Oh you are a brute. It’s a hie: 
nobody ever saw the sign of liquor on me. [Ste goes back 
to Ler chair and plants herself there defiantly|. 

PICKERING [i good-humored remonstrance| Does it occur 
to you, Higgins, that the girl has some feelings? 

HicGins [/ooking critically at ber| Oh no, I dont think so. 
Not any feelings that we need bother about. [C4eeri/y] 
Have you, Eliza? 

Liza. I got my feelings same as anyone else. 

Hiccins [to Pickering, reflectively] You see the difficulty? 

PICKERING. Eh? What difficulty? 

Hiccins. To get her to talk grammar. The mere pro- 
nunciation is easy enough. 


Act II Pygmalion 22 


Liza. 1 dont want to talk grammar. I want to talk like 
a lady. 

MRS PEARCE. Will you please keep to the point, Mr 
Higgins. I want to know on what terms the girl is to be 
here. Is she to have any wages? And what is to become 
of her when youve finished your teaching? You must look 
ahead a little. 

HIGGINS [impatiently] Whats to become of her if I leave 
her in the gutter? Tell me that, Mrs Pearce. 

MRS PEARCE. Thats her own business, not yours, Mr 
Higgins. 

Hiccins. Well, when Ive done with her, we can throw 
her back into the gutter; and then it will be her own 
business again; so thats all right. 

Liza. Oh, youve no feeling heart in you: you dont care 
for nothing but yourself [she rises and takes the floor resol- 
utely|. Here! Ive had enough of this. I’m going [making 
for the door}. You ought to be ashamed of yourself, you 
ought. 

HIGGINS [snatching a chocolate cream from the piano, his 
eyes suddenly beginning to twinkle with mischief | Have some 
chocolates, Eliza. 

Liza [Aalting, tempted) How do I know what might be in 
them? Ive heard of girls being drugged by the like of you. 

Higgins whips out his penknife; cuts a chocolate in two; 
puts one half into bis mouth and bolts it; and offers her the 
other half. . 

Hiccins. Pledge of good faith, Eliza. I eat one half: 
you eat the other. [Liza opens her mouth to retort: he 
pops the half chocolate into it], You shall have boxes of 
them, barrels of them, every day. You shall live on 
them. Eh? 

Liza [who 4as disposed of the chocolate after being nearly 
choked by it] I wouldnt have ate it, only I’m too ladylike 
to take it out of my mouth. 

Hiccins. Listen, Eliza. I think you said you came in a 
taxi. 


24 Pygmalion Act II 


Liza. Well, what if I did? Ive as good a right to takea 
taxi as anyone else. 

Hiccins. You have, Eliza; and in future you shall have 
as many taxls as you want. You shall go up and down and 
round the town in a taxi every day. Think of that, Eliza. 

MRS PEARCE. Mr Higgins: youre tempting the girl. Its 
not right. She should think of the future. 

Hiccins. At her age! Nonsense! Time enough to think 
of the future when you havnt any future to think of. No, 
Eliza: do as this lady does: think of other people’s futures ; 
but never think of your own. Think of chocolates, and 
taxis, and gold, and diamonds. 

Liza. No: I dont want no gold and no diamonds. I’ma 
good girl, lam. [S4e sits down again, with an attempt at dignity]. 

HIGGINS. You shall remain so, Eliza, under the care of Mrs 
Pearce. And you shall marry an officer in the Guards, with 
a beautiful moustache: the son of a marquis, who will dis- 
inherit him for marrying you, but will relent when he sees 
your beauty and goodness— 

PICKERING. Excuse me, Higgins; but I really must inter- 
fere. Mrs Pearce is quite right. If this girl is to put herself 
in your hands for six months for an experiment in teaching, 
she must understand thoroughly what shes doing. 

Hiccins. How can she? Shes incapable of understanding 
anything. Besides, do any of us understand what we are 
doing? If we did, would we ever do it? 

PICKERING. Very clever, Higgins; but not sound sense. 
[To Eliza] Miss Doolittle— 

Liza. [overwhelmed] Ah-ah-ow-oo! 

Hiccins. There! ‘Thats all youll get out of Eliza. Ah- 
ah-ow-o0! Nouse explaining. Asa military man you ought 
to know that. Give her her orders: thats what she wants. 
Eliza: you are to live here for the next six months, learning 
how to speak beautifully, like a lady in a florist’s shop. If 
youre good and do whatever youre told, you shall sleep in 
a proper bedroom, and have lots to eat, and money to buy 
chocolates and take rides in taxis. If youre naughty and 


Act If Pygmalion 25 


idle you will sleep in the back kitchen among the black 
beetles, and be walloped by Mrs Pearce with a broomstick. 
At the end of six months you shall go to Buckingham Palace 
in a carriage, beautifully dressed. If the King finds out 
youre not a lady, you will be taken by the police to the 
Tower of London, where your head will be cut off as a 
warning to other presumptuous flower girls. If you are not | 
found out, you shall have a present of seven-and-sixpence 
to start life with as a lady ina shop. If you refuse this offer 
you will be a most ungrateful and wicked girl; and the 
angels will weep for you. [To Pickering] Now are you 
satisfied, Pickering? [To Mrs Pearce] Can I put it more 
plainly and fairly, Mrs Pearce? 

MRS PEARCE [patiently| I think youd better let me speak 
to the girl properly in private. I dont know that I can take 
charge of her or consent to the arrangement at all. Of 
course I know you dont mean her any harm; but when you 
get what you call interested in peoples’ accents, you never 
think or care what may happen to them or you. Come 
with me, Eliza. 

HicciIns. Thats all right. Thank you, Mrs Pearce. 
Bundle her off to the bath-room. 

Liza [rising reluctantly and suspiciously] Youre a great bully, 
you are. I wont stay here if I dont like. I wont let no- 
body wallop me. I never asked to go to Bucknam Palace, 
I didnt. I was never in trouble with the police, not me. Im 
a good girl— 

MRS PEARCE. Dont answer back, girl. You dont under- 
stand the gentleman. Come with me. [Ste leads the way to 
the door, and holds it open for Eliza). 

uiza [as she goes out] Well, what I say is right. I wont 
go near the king, not if I’m going to have my head cut off. 
If I'd known what I was letting myself in for, I wouldnt 
have come here. ] always been a good girl; and I never 
offered to say a word to him; and I dont owe him nothing; 
and I dont care; and I wont be put upon; and I have my 
feelings the same as anyone else— 


26 Pygmalion Act II 


Mrs Pearce shuts the dour; and Eliza’s plaints are no longer 
audible. Pickering comes from the hearth to the chair and sits 
astride it with his arms on the back. 

PICKERING. Excuse the straight question, Higgins. Are 
you a man of good character where women are concerned? 

HIGGINS [moodi/y| Have you ever met a man of good 
character where women are concerned? 

PICKERING. Yes: very frequently. 

HiccINs [dogmatically, lifting himself on his hands to the level 
of the piano, and sitting on it with a bounce) Well, 1 havnt. 
I find that the moment I let a woman make friends with me, 
she becomes jealous, exacting, suspicious, and a damned 
nuisance. I find that the moment I let myself make friends 
with a woman, I become selfish and tyrannical. Women 
upset everything. When you let them into your life, you 
find that the woman is driving at one thing and youre 
driving at another. 

PICKERING. At what, for example? 

HIGGINS [coming off the piano restlessly| Oh, Lord knows! 
I suppose the woman wants to live her own life; and the 
man wants to live his; and each tries to drag the other on 
to the wrong track. One wants to go north and the other 
south; and the result is that both have to go east, though 
they both hate the east wind. [He sits down on the bench at 
the keyboard). So here I am, a confirmed old bachelor, and 
likely to remain so. 

PICKERING [rising and standing over him gravely| Come, 
Higgins! You know what I mean. If I’m to be in this 
business I shall feel responsible for that girl. I hope it’s 
understood that no advantage is to be taken of her position. 

Hiccins. What! That thing! Sacred, I assure you. 
[Rising to explain} You see, she'll be a pupil; and teach- 
ing would be impossible unless pupils were sacred. Ive 
taught scores of American millionairesses how to speak 
English: the best looking women in the world. I’m 
seasoned. They might as well be blocks of wood. J might 
as well be a block of wood. It’s— 


Act II Pygmalion 27 


Mrs Pearce opens the door. She has Eliza’s hat in her hand. 
Pickering retires to the easy chair at the hearth and sits down. 

HiGccins [eager/y] Well, Mrs Pearce: is it all right? 

MRS PEARCE [at tfe door] I just wish to trouble you with 
a word, if I may, Mr Higgins. 

HIccins. Yes, certainly. Come in. [S4e comes forward ]. 
Dont burn that, Mrs Pearce. I’ll keep it as a curiosity. 
| He takes the hat]. 

MRS PEARCE. Handle it carefully, sir, please. I had to 
promise her not to burn it; but I had better put it in the 
oven for a while. 

HIGGINS [putting it down hastily on the piano] Oh! thank 
you. Well, what have you to say to me? 

PICKERING. Am I in the way? 

MRS PEARCE. Not at all, sir. Mr Higgins: will you please 
be very particular what you say before the girl? 

Hiccins [sternly] Of course. I’m always particular about 
what I say. Why do you say this to me? 

MRS PEARCE [“¢moved| No, sir: youre not at all particular 
when youve mislaid anything or when you get a little im- 
patient. Now it doesnt matter before me: I’m used to it. 
But you really must not swear before the girl. 

HiGGiNs [indignantly] Iswear! [ Most emphatically] I never 
swear. I detest the habit. What the devil do you mean? 

MRS PEARCE [sto/id/y| Thats what I mean, sir. You swear 
a great deal too much. I dont mind your damning and 
blasting, and what the devil and where the devil and 
who the devil— 

HIGGINS. Mrs Pearce: this language from your lips! 
Really! 

MRS PEARCE [not to be put off | —but there is a certain word 
T must ask you not to use. The girl has just used it herself 
because the bath was too hot. It begins with the same 
letter as bath. She knows no better: she learnt it at her 
mother’s knee. But she must not hear it from your lips. 

Hiccins [/ftily] I cannot charge myself with having ever 
uttered it, Mrs Pearce. [She looks at him steadfastly. He 


28 Pygmalion Act II 


adds, hiding an uneasy conscience with a judicial air] Except 
perhaps in a momentof extreme and justifiable excite- 
ment. 

MRS PEARCE. Only this morning, sir, you applied it to 
your boots, to the butter, and to the brown bread. 

HIGcins. Oh, that! Mere alliteration, Mrs Pearce, 
natural to a poet. 

MRS PEARCE. Well, sir, whatever you choose to call it, I 
beg you not to let the girl hear you repeat it. 

Hiccins. Oh, very well, very well. Is that all? 

MRS PEARCE, No, sir. We shall have to be very particular 
with this girl as to personal cleanliness. 

HIGGINS. Certainly. Quite right. Most important. 

MRS PEARCE. I mean not to be slovenly about her dress 
or untidy in leaving things about. 

HIGGINS [going to her solemnly| Justso. I intended to call 
your attention to that. [He passes on to Pickering, who is 
enjoying the conversation immensely]. It is these little things 
that matter, Pickering. Take care of the pence and the 
pounds will take care of themselves is as true of personal 
habits as of money. [He comes to anchor on the hearthrug, 
with the air of a man in an unassailable position). 

MRs PEARCE. Yes, sir. Then might I ask you not to 
come down to breakfast in your dressing-gown, or at 
any rate not to use it as a napkin to the extent you do, 
sir. And if you would be so good as not to eat every- 
thing off the same plate, and to remember not to put the 
porridge saucepan out of your hand on the clean table- 
cloth, it would be a better example to the girl. You know 
you nearly choked yourself with a fishbone in the jam only 
last week. 3 

HIGGINS [routed from the hearthrug and drifting back to the 
piano] I may do these things sometimes in absence of mind; 
but surely I dont do them habitually. [dzgrily] By the 
way: my dressing-gown smells most damnably of benzine. 

MRS PEARCE. No doubt it does, Mr Higgins. But if you 
will wipe your fingers— 


Act II Pygmalion 29 


Hiccins [ ye//ing] Oh very well, very well: I'll wipe them 
in my hair in future. 

MRs PEARCE. I hope youre not offended, Mr Higgins. 

HIGGINS [shocked at finding himself thought capable of an un- 
amiable sentiment| Not at all, not at all. Youre quite right, 
Mrs Pearce: I shall be particularly careful before the girl. 
Is that all? 

Mrs PEARCE. No, sir. Might she use some of those 
Japanese dresses you brought from abroad? I really cant 
put her back into her old things. 

Hiccins. Certainly. Anything you like. Is that all? 

mrs Pearce. Thank you, sir. Thats all. [She goes 
Out |. 

_ You know, Pickering, that woman has the most 
extraordinary ideas about me. Here I am, a shy, diffident 
sort of man. Ive never been able to feel really grown-up 
and tremendous, like other chaps. And yet shes firmly 
persuaded that I’m an arbitrary overbearing bossing kind 
of person. I cant account for it. 

Mrs Pearce returns. 

MRS PEARCE. If you please, sir, the trouble’s beginning 
already. Theres a dustman downstairs, Alfred Doolittle, 
wants to see you. He says you have his daughter here. 

PICKERING [rising] Phew! I say! [He retreats to the 
hearthrug |. 

Hiccins [ promptly] Send the blackguard up. 

MRS PEARCE. Oh, very well, sir. [She goes out], 

PICKERING. He may not be a blackguard, Higgins. 

HiccIns. Nonsense. Of course hes a blackguard. 

PICKERING. Whether he is or not, I’m afraid we shall 
have some trouble with him. . 

HIGGINS [confidently] Oh no: I think not. If theres any 
trouble he shall have it with me, not I with him. And we 
are sure to get something interesting out of him. 

PICKERING. About the girl? 

HiccIns. No. I mean his dialect. 

PICKERING. Oh! 


30 Pygmalion Act II 


MRS PEARCE [at the door] Doolittle, sir. [She admits Doo- 
Little and retires), 

Alfred Doolittle is an elderly but vigorous dustman, clad in 
the costume of his profession, including a hat with a back brim 
covering his neck and shoulders. He has well marked and 
rather interesting features, and seems equally free from fear 
and conscience. He has a remarkably expressive voice, the 
result of a habit of giving vent to his feelings without 
reserve. His present pose is that of wounded honor and stern 
resolution. 

DOOLITTLE [at the door, uncertain which of the two gentle- 
men is his man] Professor Higgins? 

Hiccins. Here. Good morning. Sit down. 

pooLitTLzE. Morning, Governor. [He sits down magis- 
terially| 1 come about a very serious matter, Governor. 

Hiccins [to Pickering] Brought upin Hounslow. Mother 
Welsh, I should think. [Doolittle opens his mouth, amazed. 
Higgins continues| What do you want, Doolittle? 

DOOLITTLE [menacingly| I want my daughter: thats what 
I want. See? 

HIGGINS. Of course you do. Youre her father, arnt you? 
You dont suppose anyone else wants her, do you? I’m 
glad to see you have some spark of family feeling left. 
Shes upstairs. Take her away at once. 

DOOLITTLE [rising, fearfully taken aback} What! 

niccins. Take her away. Do you suppose I’m going to 
keep your daughter for you? 

DOOLITTLE [remonstrating | Now, now, look here, Governor. 
Is this reasonable? Is it fairity to take advantage of a man 
like this? The girl belongs to me. You got her. Where 
do I come in? [He sits down again). 

HicciIns. Your daughter had the audacity to come to my 
house and ask me to teach her how to speak properly so 
that she could get a place in a flower-shop. This gentleman 
and my housekeeper have been here all the time. [Bullying 
him] How dare you come here and attempt to blackmail 
me? You sent her here on purpose. 


Act II Pygmalion a 


DOOLITTLE [ protesting] No, Governor. 

HIccins. You must have. How else could you possibly 
know that she is here? 

pootitrLe. Dont take a man up like that, Governor. 

HIGGINS. The police shall take you up. This is a plant 
—a plot to extort money by threats. I shall telephone for 
the police [fe goes resolutely to the telephone and opens the 
directory}. 

DOOLITTLE. Have I asked you for a brass farthing? I leave 
it to the gentleman here: have I said a word about money? 

HIGGINS [throwing the book aside and marching down on 
Doolittle with a poser | What else did you come for? 

DOOLITTLE [szveet/y} Well, what would a man come for? 
Be human, Governor. 

HicGINs [disarmed | Alfred: did you put her up to it? 

DOOLITTLE. So help me, Governor, I never did. I take 
my Bible oath I aint seen the girl these two months past. 

Hiccins. Then how did you know she was here? 

DOOLITTLE [“‘ most musical, most melancholy”) V1 tell 
you, Governor, if youll only let me get a wordin. I’m 
willing to tell you. I’m wanting to tell you. I’m waiting 
to tell you. 

Hiccins, Pickering: this chap has a certain natural gift 
of rhetoric. Observe the rhythm of his native woodnotes 
wild. “I’m willing to tell you: I’m wanting to tell you: 
I’m waiting to tell you.” Sentimental rhetoric! thats the 
Welsh strain in him. It also accounts for his mendacity 
and dishonesty. 

PICKERING. Oh, please, Higgins: I’m west country 
myself. [Jo Doolittle] How did you know the girl was 
here if you didnt send her? 

DOOLITTLE. It was like this, Governor. The girl took a 
boy in the taxi to give him a jaunt. Son of her landlady, 
he is. He hung about on the chance of her giving him 
another ride home. Well, she sent him back for her lug- 
gage when she heard you was willing for her to-stop here. 
I met the boy at the corner of Long Acre and Endell Street. 


a2 Pygmalion Act II 


Hiccins. Public house. Yes? 

pooLitTLze. The poor man’s club, Governor: why 
shouldnt I? 

PICKERING. Do let him tell his story, Higgins. 

DooLiTTLE. He told me what was up. And I ask you, 
what was my feelings and my duty as a father? I says to 
the boy, ‘‘ You bring me the luggage,” I says— 

PICKERING. Why didnt you go for it yourself? 

pooLiTrLE. Landlady wouldnt have trusted me with it, 
Governor. Shes that kind of woman: you know. I had 
to give the boy a penny afore he trusted me with it, the 
little swine. I brought it to her just to oblige you like, 
and make myself agreeable. ‘Thats all. 

Hiccins. How much luggage? 

pooLitTLe. Musical instrument, Governor. A few pic- 
tures, a trifle of jewlery, and a bird-cage. She said she 
didnt want no clothes. What was I to think from that, 
Governor? I ask you as a parent what was I to think? 

HIGGINS. So you came to rescue her from worse than 
death, eh? 

DOOLITTLE [appreciatively: relieved at being so well under- 
stood | Just so, Governor. Thats right. 

PICKERING. But why did you bring her luggage if you 
intended to take her away? 

pootitrLe. Have I said a word about taking her away? 
Have I now? 

Hiccins [determinedly] Youre going to take her away, 
double quick. [He crosses to the hearth and rings the 
bell). 

ae [rising] No, Governor. Dont say that. I’m 
not the man to stand in my girl’s light. Heres a career 
opening for her, as you might say ; and— 

Mrs Pearce opens the door and awaits orders. 

Hiccins. Mrs Pearce: thisis Eliza’s father. He has come 
to take her away. Give her to him. [He goes back to the 
piano, with an air of washing his hands of the whole affair). 

poouitrLe. No. This is a misunderstanding. Listen here— 


Act II Pygmalion 33 


MRS PEARCE. He cant take her away, Mr Higgins: how 
can he? You told me to burn her clothes. 

DOOLITTLE. Thats right. I cant carry the girl through 
the streets like a blooming monkey, can J? I put it to you. 

HIGGINS. You have put it to me that you want your 
daughter. Take your daughter. If she has no clothes go 
out and buy her some. 

DOOLITTLE [desperate] Wheres the clothes she come in? 
Did I burn them or did your missus here? 

Mrs PEARCE. I am the housekeeper, if you please. I have 
sent for some clothes for your girl, When they come you 
can take her away. You can wait in the kitchen. This 
way, please. 

Doolittle, much troubled, accompanies her to the door; then 
hesitates; finally turns confidentially to Higgins. 

DOOLITTLE. Listen here, Governor. You and me is men 
of the world, aint we? 

Hiccins. Oh! Men of the world, are we? Youd better 
go, Mrs Pearce. 

Mrs PEARCE. I think so, indeed, sir. [She goes, with dignity}. 

PICKERING. The floor is yours, Mr Doolittle. 

poouitrLe [to Pickering] I thank you, Governor. [To 
Higgins, who takes refuge on the piano bench, a little over- 
whelmed by the proximity of bis visitor; for Doolittle has a 
professional flavor of dust about him]. Well, the truth is, Ive 
taken a sort of fancy to you, Governor; and if you want 
the girl, I’m not so set on having her back home again but 
what I might be open to an arrangement. Regarded in the 
light of a young woman, shes a fine handsome girl. Asa 
daughter shes not worth her keep; and so J tell you straight. 
All I ask is my rights as a father; and youre the last man 
alive to expect me to let her go for nothing; for I can see 
youre one of the straight sort, Governor. Well, whats a five 
pound note to you? And whats Eliza to me? [ He returns 
to his chair and sits down judicially|. 

PICKERING. I think you ought to know, Doolittle, chat 
Mr Higgins’s intentions are entirely honorable. 

D 


34 Pygmalion Act I 


DOOLITTLE. Course they are, Governor. If I thought 
they wasnt, Id ask fifty. 

HIGGINS [revolted] Do you mean to say, you callous rascal, 
that you would sell your daughter for £50? 

DOOLITTLE. Not in a general way I wouldnt; but to 
oblige a gentleman like you I’d do a good deal, I do assure 
you. 

PICKERING. Have you no morals, man? 

DOOLITTLE [uzabashed| Cant afford them, Governor. 
Neither could you if you was as poor as me. Not that I 
mean any harm, you know. But if Liza is going to have a 
bit out of this, why not me too? 

niccins [trozbled] I dont know what to do, Pickering. 
There can be no question that as a matter of morals it’s a 
positive crime to give this chap a farthing. And yet I feel 
a sort of rough justice in his claim. 

DOOLITTLE. ‘hats it, Governor. Thats all Isay. A father’s 
heart, as it were. 

PICKERING. Well, I know the feeling; but really it 
seems hardly right— 

DOOLITTLE. Dont say that, Governor. Dont look at it 
that way. What am I, Governors both? I ask you, what 
am I? I’m one of the undeserving poor: thats what I am. 
Think of what that means toa man. It means that hes up 
agen middle class morality all the time. If theres any- 
thing going, and ] put in for a bit of it, it’s always the 
same story: ‘‘ Youre undeserving; so you cant have it.” 
But my needs is as great as the most deserving widow’s that 
ever got money out of six different charities in one week for 
the death of the same husband. I dont need less than a 
deserving man: I need more. I dont eat less hearty than 
him; and I drink a lot more. I want a bit of amusement, 
cause I’m a thinking man. I want cheerfulness and a song 
and a band when I feel low. Well, they charge me just 
the same for everything as they charge the deserving. What 
is middle class morality? Just an excuse for never giving 
me anything. Therefore, I ask you, as two gentlemen, not 


Act II Pygmalion 25 


to play that game on me. I’m playing straight with you. 
I aint pretending to be deserving. I’m undeserving; and I 
mean to go on being undeserving. I like it; and thats the 
truth. Will you take advantage of a man’s nature to do 
him out of the price of his own daughter what hes brought 
up and fed and clothed by the sweat of his brow until 
shes growed big enough to be interesting to you two 
gentlemen? Is five pounds unreasonable? I put itto you; 
and I leave it to you. 

HIGGINS [rising, and going over to Pickering] Pickering: 
if we were to take this man in hand for three months, he 
could choose between a seat in the Cabinet and a popular 
pulpit in Wales. 

PICKERING. What do you say to that, Doolittle? 

pooLitTLeE. Not me, Governor, thank you kindly. Ive 
heard all the preachers and all the prime ministers—for I’m 
a thinking man and game for politics or religion or social 
reform same as all the other amusements—and I tell you 
it’s a dog’s life anyway you look at it. Undeserving poverty 
is my line. ‘Taking one station in society with another, it’s 
—it’s—well, it’s the only one that has any ginger in it, to 
my taste. 

HiccINsS. I suppose we must give him a fiver. 

PICKERING. He’ll make a bad use of it, I’m afraid. 

DOOLITTLE. Not me, Governor, so help me I wont. 
Dont you be afraid that I’ll save it and spare it and live 
idle on it. There wont be a penny of it left by Monday: 
I'l] have to go to work same as if I’d never had it. It wont 
pauperize me, you bet. Just one good spree for myself and 
the missus, giving pleasure to ourselves and employment to 
others, and satisfaction to you to think it’s not been throwed 
away. You couldnt spend it better. 

Hiccins [taking out his pocket book and coming between 
Doolittle and the piano| 'This is irresistible. Lets give him 
ten. [He offers two notes to the dustman}. : 

DOOLITTLE. No, Governor. She wouldnt have the heart 
to spend ten; and perhaps I shouldnt neither. Ten 


36 Pygmalion Act II 


pounds Is a lot of money: it makes a man feel prudent 
like; and then goodbye to happiness. You give me what 
i ask you, Governor : not a penny more, and not a penny 
ess. 

PICKERING. Why dont you marry that missus of yours? 
I rather draw the line at encouraging that sort of im- 
morality. 

DOOLITTLE. Tell her so, Governor: tell her so. J’m 
willing. It’s me that suffers by it. Ive no hold on her. I 
got to be agreeable to her. I got to give her presents. I 
got to buy her clothes something sinful. I’m a slave to 
that woman, Governor, just because I’m not her lawful 
husband. And she knows it too. Catch her marrying 
me! Take my advice, Governor: marry Eliza while 
shes young and dont know no better. If you dont 
youll be sorry for it after. If you do, she’ll be sorry for 
it after; but better you than her, because youre a man, and 
shes only a woman and dont know how to be happy anyhow. 

Hiccins. Pickering: if we listen to this man another 
minute, we shall have no convictions left. [To Doolittle] 
Five pounds I think you said. 

DooLITTLE. Thank you kindly, Governor. 

HIGGINS. Youre sure you wont take ten? 

DOOLITTLE. Not now. Another time, Governor. 

HIGGINS [handing him a five-pound note| Here you are. 

pootitTLeE. Thank you, Governor. Good morning. [ He 
hurries to the door, anxious to get away with his booty. When 
he opens it he is confronted with a dainty and exquisitely clean 
young Fapanese lady in a simple blue cotton kimono printed 
cunningly with small white jasmine blossoms. Mrs Pearce is 
with her. He gets out of her way deferentially and apologizes). 
Beg pardon, miss. 

THE JAPANESE LaDY. Garn! Dont you know your own 
daughter? 


DOOLITTLE | exclaiming [Bly me! it’s Eliza! 
HIGGINS simul- + Whats that! This! 
PICKERING | taneously \ By Jove! 


Act II Pygmalion 37 


uiza. Dont I look silly? 

Hiccins. Silly? 

MRS PEARCE [at the door] Now, Mr Higgins, please dont 
say anything to make the girl conceited about herself. 

Hiccins [conscientiously] Oh! Quite right, Mrs Pearce. 
[To Efiza] Yes: damned silly. 

MRS PEARCE. Please, sir. 

Hiccins [correcting himself | Y mean extremely silly. 

uiza. I should look all right with my hat on. [S+e takes 
up her hat; puts it on; and walks across the room to the fire- 
place with a fashionable air}. 

Hiccins. A new fashion, by George! And it ought to 
look horrible ! 

pooLITTLe [2ith futherly pride| Well, I never thought 
she’d clean up as good looking as that, Governor. Shes a 
credit to me, aint she? 

uiza. I tell you, it’s easy to clean up here. Hot and 
cold water on tap, just as much as you like, there is. 
Woolly towels, there is; and a towel horse so hot, it burns 
your fingers. Soft brushes to scrub yourself, and a wooden 
bowl of soap smelling like primroses. Now I know why 
ladies is so clean. Washing’s a treat for them. Wish they 
saw what it is for the like of me! 

Hiccins. I’m glad the bath-room met with your 
approval. 

Liza. It didnt: not all of it; and I dont care who hears 
me say it. Mrs Pearce knows. 

uiccins. What was wrong, Mrs Pearce? 

mrs PEARCE | 4/andly] Oh, nothing, sir. It doesnt matter. 

tiza. I had a good mind to break it. I didnt know 
which way to look, But I hung a towel over it, I did. 

HIGGINS, Over what? 

MRS PEARCE. Over the sokatie class: sir. 

HiccIns. Doolittle: you have brought your daughter up 
too strictly. 

pooLiTTLE. Me! I never brought her up at all, except 
to give her a lick of a strap now and again. Dont put it on 


38 Pygmalion Act Il 


me, Governor. She aint accustomed to it, you see: thats 
all. But she’ll soon pick up your free-and-easy ways. 

uiza. I’m a good girl, I am; and I wont pick up no 
free and easy ways. 

HiccINS. Eliza: if you say again that youre a good girl, 
your father shall take you home. 

Liza. Not him. You dont know my father. All he 
come here for was to touch you for some money to get 
drunk on. 

DOOLITTLE. Well, what else would I want money for? 
To put into the plate in church, I suppose. [She puts out 
her tongue at him. He is so incensed by this that Pickering 
presently finds it necessary to step between them]. Dont you 
give me none of your lip; and dont let me hear you giving 
this gentleman any of it neither, or youll hear from me 
about it. See? 

H1GGINS. Have you any further advice to give her before 
you go, Doolittle? Your blessing, for instance. 

pooLItTLE. No, Governor: I aint such a mug as to put 
up my children to all I know myself. Hard enough to 
hold them in without that. If you want Eliza’s mind im- 
proved, Governor, you do it yourself with a strap. So 
long, gentlemen. [He turns to go]. 

HIGGINS [impressively] Stop. Youll come regularly to see 
your daughter. It’s your duty, you know. My brother is 
a clergyman; and he could help you in your talks with her. 

DOOLITTLE [evasively] Certainly. I’ll come, Governor. 
Not just this week, because I have a job at a distance. 
But later on you may depend on me. Afternoon, gentle- 
men. Afternoon, maam. [He takes off his hat to Mrs Pearce, 
who disdains the salutation and goes out. He winks at Higgins, 
thinking him probably a fellow sufferer from Mrs Pearce’s diffi- 
cult disposition, and follows her). 

Liza. Dont you believe the old liar. He’d as soon you 
set a bull-dog on him as a clergyman. You wont see him 
again in a hurry. 

Hiccins. I dont want to, Eliza. Do you? 


Act II Pygmalion 39 


Liza. Not me. I dont want never to see him again, I 
dont. Hes a disgrace to me, he is, collecting dust, instead 
of working at his trade. 

PICKERING. What is his trade, Eliza? 

Liza. Talking money out of other people’s pockets into 
his own. His proper trade’s a navvy; and he works at 
It sometimes too—for exercise—and earns good money 
at it. Aint you going to call me Miss Doolittle any more? 

PICKERING. I beg your pardon, Miss Doolittle. It was a 
slip of the tongue. 

tiza. Oh, I dont mind; only it sounded so genteel. I 
should just like to take a taxi tothe corner of Tottenham 
Court Road and get out there and tell it to wait for me, 
just to put the girls in their place a bit. I wouldnt speak 
to them, you know. 

PICKERING. Better wait til we get you something really 
fashionable. 

Hiccins. Besides, you shouldnt cut your old friends now 
that you have risen in the world. Thats what we call 
snobbery. 

uiza, You dont call the like of them my friends now, I 
should hope. Theyve took it out of me often enough with 
their ridicule when they had the chance; and now I mean 
to get a bit of my own back. But if I’m to have fashionable 
clothes, I’]l wait. I should like to have some. Mrs Pearce 
says youre going to give me some to wear in bed at night 
different to what I wear in the daytime; but it do seem a 
waste of money when you could get something to shew. 
Besides, I never could fancy changing into cold things on 
a winter night. 

MRS PEARCE [coming back] Now, Eliza. The new things 
have come for you to try on. 

u1za. Ah-ow-o0-ooh! [She rushes out]. 

MRS PEARCE [ following her| Oh, dont rush about like that, 
girl. [She shuts the door behind her]. 

HIGGINS. Pickering: we have taken on a stiff job. 

PICKERING [with conviction] Higgins: we have. 


ACT Il 


It is Mrs Higgins’s at-home day. Nobody has yet arrived, 
Her drawing-room, in a flat on Chelsea embankment, has three 
windows looking on the river; and the ceiling is not so lofty as 
it would be in an older house of the same pretension. The 
windows are open, giving access to a balcony with flowers in 
pots. If you stand with your face to the windows, you have the 
fireplace on your left and the door in the right-hand wall close 
to the corner nearest the windows. 

Mrs Higgins was brought up on Morris and Burne Fones; 
and her room, which is very unlike her son’s room in Wimpole 
Street, is not crowded with furniture and little tables and nick- 
nacks. In the middle of the room there is a big ottoman; and 
this, with the carpet, the Morris wall-papers, and the Morris 
chintz window curtains and brocade covers of the ottoman and 
its cushions, supply all the ornament, and are much too hana- 
some to be hidden by odds and ends of useless things. A few 
good oil-paintings from the exhibitions in the Grosvenor Gallery 
thirty years ago (the Burne Fones, not the Whistler side of 
them) are on the walls. The only landscape is a Cecil Lawson 
on the scale of a Rubens. There is a portrait of Mrs Higgins 
as she was when she defied fashion in her youth in one of the 
beautiful Rossettian costumes which, when caricatured by people 
who did not understand, led to the absurdities of popular 
estheticism in the eighteen-seventies. 

In the corner diagonally opposite the door Mrs Higgins, now 
over sixty and long past taking the trouble to dress out of the 


40 


Act III Pygmalion 41 


fashion, sits writing at an elegantly simple writing-table with a 
bell button within reach of her hand. There is a Chippendale 
chair further back in the room between her and the window 
nearest her side. At the other side of the room, further forward, 
is an Elizabethan chair roughly carved in the taste of Inigo 
Fones. On the same side a piano in a decorated case. The 
corner between the fireplace and the window is occupied by a 
divan cushioned in Morris chintz. 

It is between four and five in the afternoon. 

The door is opened violently; and Higgins enters with bishaton. 


MRS HIGGINS [dismayed | Henry [scolding him]! What are 
you doing here to-day? It is my at-home day: you pro- 
mised not to come. [4s he bends to kiss her, she takes his bat 
off, and presents it to him). 

Hiccins. Oh bother! [He throws the hat down on the table}. 

MRs HIGGINS. Go home at once. 

Hiccins [kissing her] 1 know, mother. I came on purpose. 

MRs HIGGINS. But you mustnt. I’m serious, Henry. 
You offend all my friends: they stop coming whenever 
they meet you. 

Hiccins. Nonsense! I know I have no small talk; but 
people dont mind. [He sits on the settee]. 

Mrs HiGcINs. Oh! dont they? Small talk indeed! What 
about your large talk? Really, dear, you mustnt stay. 

Hiccins. I must. Ive a job for you. A phonetic job. 

mrs HIGGINS. No use, dear. l’m sorry; but I cant get 
round your vowels; and though I like to get pretty post- 
cards in your patent shorthand, I always have to read the 
copies in ordinary writing you so thoughtfully send me. 

HiccINSs. Well, this isnt a phonetic job. 

MRS HIGGINS. You said it was. 

Hiccins. Not your part of it. Ive picked up a girl. 

MRS HIGGINS. Does that mean that some girl has picked 
you up? 

Hiccins. Not at all. I dont mean a love affair. 

Mrs HiGGINs. What a pity! 


42 Pygmalion Act Ill 


Hiccins. Why? 

mrs HIGGINS. Well, you never fall in love with anyone 
under forty-five. When will you discover that there are 
some rather nice-looking young women about? 

HIccins. Oh, 1 cant be bothered with young women. 
My idea of a lovable woman is something as like you as 
possible. I shall never get into the way of seriously liking 
young women: some habits lie too deep to be changed. 
[Rising abruptly and walking about, jingling his money and his 
keys in his trouser pockets] Besides, theyre all idiots. 

MRS HIGGINS. Do you know what you would do if you 
really loved me, Henry? 

HiccINS. Oh bother! What? Marry, I suppose? 

mrs HicciIns. No, Stop fidgeting and take your hands 
out of your pockets. [With a gesture of despair, he obeys 
and sits down again). Thats a good boy. Now tell me 
about the girl. 

HIGGINS. Shes coming to see you. 

mrs HiGGins. I dont remember asking her. 

Hiccins. You didnt. J asked her. If youd known her 
you wouldnt have asked her. 

mrs HIGGINS. Indeed! Why? | 

Hiccins. Well, it’s like this. Shes a common flower girl. 
I picked her off the kerbstone. 

Mrs HIGGINS. And invited her to my at-home! 

HIGGINS [rising and coming to her to coax her| Oh, thatll 
be all right. Ive taught her to speak properly; and she 
has strict orders as to her behavior. Shes to keep to two 
subjects: the weather and everybody’s health—Fine day 
and How do you do, you know—and not to let herself 
go on things in general. That will be safe. 

mrs HiGGINs. Safe! Totalk about our health! about our 
insides! perhaps about our outsides! How could you be 
so silly, Henry? 

HIGGINS [impatiently] Well, she must talk about some- 
thing. [He controls himself and sits down again]. Oh, she’ll 
be all right: dont you fuss. Pickering is in it with me. 


Act Il Pygmalion 43 


Ive a sort of bet on that I'll pass her off as a duchess in 
six months. I started on her some months ago; and shes 
getting on like a house on fire. I shall win my bet. She 
has a quick ear; and shes been easier to teach than my 
middle-class pupils because shes had to learn a complete 
new language. She talks English almost as you talk French. 

MRS HIGGINS. Thats satisfactory, at all events. 

HiGccins. Well, it is and it isnt. 

MRS HIGGINS. What does that mean? 

Hiccins. You see, Ive got her pronunciation all right ; 
but you have to consider not only how a girl pronounces, 
but what she pronounces; and thats where— 

They are interrupted by the parlor-maid, announcing guests. 

THE PARLOR-MaID. Mrs and Miss Eynsford Hill. [S4e 
withdraws |. 

Hiccins. Oh Lord! [He rises; snatches his hat from the 
table; and makes for the door; but before he reaches it his mother 
introduces him). 

Mrs and Miss Eynsford Hill are the mother and daughter 
who sheltered from the rain in Covent Garden. The mother 
is well bred, quiet, and has the habitual anxiety of straitened 
means. The daughter has acquired a gay air of being very much 
at home in society: the bravado of genteel poverty. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [to Mrs Higgins] How do you do? 
[They shake hands}. 

MISS EYNSFORD HILL. How d’you do? [Sve shakes]. 

MRS HIGGINS [#troducing| My son Henry. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. Your celebrated son! I have so 
longed to meet you, Professor Higgins. 

HiccIns [glumly, making no movement in her direction] 
Delighted. [He backs against the piano and bows brusquely). 

MISS EYNSFORD HILL [going to him with confident familiarity | 
How do you do? 

HIGGINS [staring at her] Ive seen you before somewhere. 
I havnt the ghost of a notion where; but Ive heard your 
voice. [Drearily] It doesnt matter. Youd better sit 
down. 


44 Pygmalion Act III 


MRS HIGGINS. I’m sorry to say that my celebrated son has 
no manners. You mustnt mind him. 

MISS EYNSFORD HILL [gaz/y| I dont. [She sits in the Eliza- 
bethan chair}. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [4 “ttle bewildered] Not at all. [She 
sits on the ottoman between her daughter and Mrs Higgins, 
who has turned her chair away from the writing-table|. 

Hiccins, Oh, have I been rude? I didnt mean to be. 

He goes to the central window, through which, with his back to 
the company, he contemplates the river and the flowers in Battersea 
Park on the opposite bank as if they were a frozen desert. 

The parlor-maid returns, ushering in Pickering. 

THE PARLOR-MAID. Colonel Pickering. [She withdraws}. 

PICKERING. How do you do, Mrs Higgins? 

MRS HIGGINS. So glad youve come. Do you know Mrs 
Eynsford Hill—Miss Eynsford Hill? [Exchange of bows. 
The Colonel brings the Chippendale chair a litth forward 
between Mrs Hill and Mrs Higgins, and sits down), 

PICKERING. Has Henry told you what weve come for? 

HIGGINS [over his shoulder| We were interrupted : damn it! 

mrs HIGGINS. Oh Henry, Henry, really! 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [4adf rising] Are we in the way? 

MRS HIGGINS [rising and making her sit down again| No, 
no. You couldnt have come more fortunately: we want 
you to meet a friend of ours. 

HicGINns [turning hopefully] Yes, by George! We want two 
or three people. Youll do as well as anybody else. 

The parlor-maid returns, ushering Freddy. 

THE PARLOR-MAID. Mr Eynsford Hill. 

Hiccins [almost audibly, past endurance} God of Heaven! 
another of them. , 

FREDDY [shaking hands with Mrs Higgins| Ahdedo? 

MRS HIGGINS. Very good of you to come. [Jmntroducing | 
Colonel] Pickering. 

FREDDY [ dowing}] Ahdedo? 

Mrs HIGGINS. I dont think you know my son, Professor 


Higgins. 


Act III Pygmalion 45 


FREDDY [going to Higgins| Ahdedo? 

uiccins [oking at him much as if he were a pickpocket] Vil 
take my oath Ive met you before somewhere. Where was it? 

FREDDY. I dont think so. 

Hiccins [resignedly] It dont matter, anyhow. Sit down. 

He shakes Freddy’s hand, and almost slings him on to the 
ottoman with his face to the windows, then comes round to the 
other side of it. 

niccins, Well, here we are, anyhow! [He sits down on 
the ottoman next Mrs. Eynsford Hill, on her eft]. And now, 
what the devil are we going to talk about until Eliza comes? 

mrs Hiccins. Henry: you are the life and soul of the 
Royal Society’s soirées; but really youre rather trying on 
more commonplace occasions. 

Hiccins. Am I? Very sorry. [Beaming suddenly| I sup- 
pose I am, you know. [Uproariously| Ha, ha! 

MISS EYNSFORD HILL [who considers Higgins quite eligible 
matrimonially| \ sympathize. J havnt any small talk. 
If people would only be frank and say what they really 
think! 

Hiccins [relapsing into gloom] Lord forbid! 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [taking up her daughter's cue| But why? 

niccins. What they think they ought to think is bad 
enough, Lord knows; but what they really think would 
break up the whole show. Do you suppose it would be 
really agreeable if I were to come out now with what J 
really think? 

MISS EYNSFORD HILL [gai/y] Is it so very cynical ? 

HiGcINs. Cynical! Who the dickens said it was cynical? 
I mean it wouldnt be decent. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [serious/y] Oh! I’m sure you dont 
mean that, Mr Higgins. 

HiccINs. You see, we’re all savages, more or less. We're 
supposed to be civilized and cultured—to know all about 
poetry and philosophy and art and science, and so on; but 
how many of us know even the meanings of these names? 
[To Miss Hill] What do you know of poetry? [Jo Mrs 


46 Pygmalion Act II 


Hill] What do you know of science? [Jndicating Freddy] 
What does he know of art or science or anything else? 
What the devil do you imagine I know of philosophy? 

MRS HIGGINS [warningly| Or of manners, Henry? 

THE PARLOR-MalID [opening the door] Miss Doolittle. [Se 
withdraws), 

Hiccins [rising hastily and running to Mrs Higgins| Here 
she is, mother. [He stands on tiptoe and makes signs over his 
mother’s head to Eliza to indicate to her which lady is her 
hostess]. 

Eliza, who is exquisitely dressed, produces an impression of 
such remarkable distinction and beauty as she enters that they 
all rise, quite fluttered. Guided by Higgins’s signals, she comes 
to Mrs Higgins with studied grace. 

Liza [speaking with pedantic correctness of pronunciation and 
great beauty of tone) How do you do, Mrs Higgins? [She 
gasps slightly in making sure of the H in Higgins, but is quite 
successful|. Mr Higgins told me I might come. 

MRS HIGGINS [cordially] Quite right: I’m very glad indeed 
to see you. 

PICKERING. How do you do, Miss Doolittle? 

Liza [shaking hands with him| Colonel Pickering, is it not? 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. [| feel sure we have met before, Miss 
Doolittle. I remember your eyes. 

uizA. How do you do? [Sée sits down on the ottoman grace- 
fully in the place just left vacant by Higgins). 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [introducing] My daughter Clara. 

Liza. How do you do? 

ciara [impulsively] How do you do? [Sha sits down on 
the ottoman beside Eliza, devouring her with her eyes}. 

FREDDY [coming to their side of the ottoman] Ive certainly 
had the pleasure. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [introducing] My son Freddy. 

Liza. How do you do? 

Freddy bows and sits down in the Elizabethan chair, in- 
fatuated. 

HiccIns [suddenly] By George, yes: it all comes back to 


Act Ill Pygmalion 47 


me! [They stare at him]. Covent Garden! [Lamentably] 
What a damned thing! 

mrs HicGcins. Henry, please! [He és about to sit on the edge 
of the table]. Dont sit on my writing-table: youll break it. 

Hiccins [sudkily| Sorry. 

He goes to the divan, stumbling into the fender and over the 
Jire-irons on his way; extricating himself with muttered impre- 
cations; and finishing his disastrous journey by throwing him- 
self so impatiently on the divan that he almost breaks it. Mrs 
Higgins looks at him, but controls herself and says nothing. 

A long and painful pause ensues. 

MRs HiGGINS [at Jast, conversationally| Will it rain, do you 
think? 

Liza. The shallowdepression in the west of these islands is 
likely to move slowly in an easterly direction. There are no 
indications of any great change in the barometrical situation. 

FREDDY. Ha! ha! how awfully funny! 

Liza. What is wrong with that, young man? I bet I got 
it right. 

FREDDY. Killing ! 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. I’m sure I hope it wont turn cold. 
Theres so much influenza about. It runs right through our 
whole family regularly every spring. 

Liza [darkly] My aunt died of influenza: so they said. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [chicks her tongue sympathetically] \'\! 

Liza [in the same tragic tone] But it’s my belief they done 
the old woman in. 

mrs Hiccins [ puzzled] Done her in? 

Liza. Y-e-e-e-es, Lord love you! Why should she die 
of influenza? She come through diphtheria right enough 
the year before. I saw her with my own eyes. Fairly blue 
with it, she was. They all thought she was dead; but my 
father he kept ladling gin down her throat til she came to 
so sudden that she bit the bow] off the spoon. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [startled] Dear me! 

Liza [ piling up the indictment] What call would a woman 
with that strength in her have to die of influenza? What 


48 Pygmalion Act Il 


become of her new straw hat that should have come to 
me? Somebody pinched it; and what I say is, them as 
pinched it done her in. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. What does doing her in mean? 

HIGGINS [4asti/y] Oh, thats the new small talk. To doa 
person in means to kill them. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [to Eliza, horrified) You surely dont 
believe that your aunt was killed? 

Liza. DoI not! Them she lived with would have killed 
her for a hat-pin, let alone a hat. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. But it cant have been right for your 
father to pour spirits down her throat like that. It might 
have killed her. 

Liza. Not her. Gin was mother’s milk to her. Besides, 
he’d poured so much down his own throat that he knew the 
good of it. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. Do you mean that he drank? 

uiza. Drank! My word! Something chronic. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. How dreadful for you! 

uiza. Nota bit. It never did him no harm what I could 
see. But then he did not keep it up regular. [CAeerfully] 
On the burst, as you might say, from time to time. And 
always more agreeable when he had a drop in. When he 
was out of work, my mother used to give him fourpence 
and tell him to go out and not come back until he’d drunk 
himself cheerful and loving-like. Theres lots of women 
has to make their husbands drunk to make them fit to live 
with. [Now quite at her ease) You see, it’s like this, If a 
man has a bit of a conscience, it always takes him when 
he’s sober; and then it makes him low-spirited. A drop of 
booze just takes that off and makes him happy. [To Freddy, 
who is in convulsions of suppressed laughter) Here! what are 
you sniggering at? 

FREDDY. The new small talk. You do it so awfully well. 

uiza. If I was doing it proper, what was you laughing at? 
[To Higgins} Have I said anything I oughtnt? 

MRS HIGGINS [izterposing| Not at all, Miss Doolittle. 


Act III Pygmalion 49 


uiza. Well, thats a mercy, anyhow. [Expansively] What 
T always say is— 

Hiccins [rising and looking at his watch] Ahem! 

Liza [/ooking round at him; taking the hint; and rising] Well: 
I must go. [They all rise. Freddy goes to the door}. So pleased 
to have met you. Good-bye. [She shakes hands with Mrs 
Higgins}. 

MRS HIGGINS. Good-bye. 

Liza. Good-bye, Colonel Pickering. 

PICKERING. Good-bye, Miss Doolittle. [They shake hands]. 

Liza [xodding to the others| Good-bye, all. 

FREDDY [opening the door for her] Are you walking across 
the Park, Miss Doolittle? If so— 

uiza. Waik! Not bloody likely. [Sezsation]. I am going 
in a taxi. [She goes out]. 

Pickering gasps and sits down. Freddy goes out on the balcony 
to catch another glimpse of Eliza. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [suffering from shock| Well, I really 
cant get used to the new ways. 

ciara [throwing herself discontentedly into the Elizabethan 
chair]. Oh, it’s all right, mamma, quite right. People will 
think we never go anywhere or see anybody if you are so 
old-fashioned. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. I daresay I am very old-fashioned ; 
but I do hope you wont begin using that expression, 
Clara. I have got accustomed to hear you talking about 
men as rotters, and calling everything filthy and beastly ; 
though I do think it horrible and unladylike. But this 
last is really too much. Dont you think so, Colonel 
Pickering? 

PICKERING. Dont ask me. Ive been away in India for 
several years; and manners have changed so much that I 
sometimes dont know whether I’m at a respectable dinner- 
table or in a ship’s forecastle. 

ciara. It’s all a matter of habit. Theres no right or 
wrong in it. Nobody means anything by it. And its so 
quaint, and gives such a smart emphasis to things that are 

E 


50 Pygmalion Act III 


not in themselves very witty. I find the new small talk 
delightful and quite innocent. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [rising] Well, after that, I think it’s 
time for us to go. 

Pickering and Higgins rise. 

cara [risivg] Oh yes: we have three at-homes to go to 
still, Good-bye, Mrs Higgins. Good-bye, Colonel Pickering. 
Good-bye, Professor Higgins. 

HIcGiIns [coming grimly at her from the divan, and accom- 
panying her to the door| Good-bye. Be sure you try on that 
small talk at the three at-homes. Dont be nervous about it. 
Pitch it in strong. 

cLaRA [a@// smiles] I will. Good-bye. Such nonsense, all 
this early Victorian prudery! 

HicciIns [tempting her| Such damned nonsense ! 

ciara. Such bloody nonsense ! 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [convudsively} Clara! 

crara. Ha! ha! [Sée goes out radiant, conscious of being 
thoroughly up to date, and is heard descending the stairs in a 
stream of silvery laughter). 

FREDDY [to the heavens at large] Well, I ask you— [He 
gives it up, and comes to Mrs Higgins|. Good-bye. 

mrs HIGGINS [shaking Lands] Good-bye. Would you like 
to meet Miss Doolittle again? 

FREDDY [eager/y] Yes, I should, most awfully. 

mrs HIGGINS. Well, you know my days. 

FREDDY. Yes. Thanks awfully. Good-bye. [He goes 
Out}. 

ae EYNSFORD HILL. Good-bye, Mr Higgins. 

HIGGINS. Good-bye. Good-bye. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL [to Pickering| It’s no use. I shall 
never be able to bring myself to use that word. 

PICKERING. Dont. It’s not compulsory, you know. Youll 
get on quite well without it. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. Only, Clara is so down on me if I 
am not positively reeking with the latest slang. Good-bye. 

PICKERING. Good-bye [They shake hands]. 


Act III Pygmalion 51 


MRS EYNSFORD HILL [to Mrs Higgins| You mustnt mind 
Clara. [Pickering, catching from her lowered tone that this 
is not meant for him to hear, discreetly joins Higgins at the 
window). We're so poor! and she gets so few parties, poor 
child! She doesnt quite know. [Mrs Higgins, seeing that 
her eyes are moist, takes her hand sympathetically and goes 
with her to the door|. But the boy is nice. Dont you 
think so? 

mrs HIGGINS, Oh, quite nice. I shall always be delighted 
to see him. 

MRS EYNSFORD HILL. hank you, dear. Good-bye. [She 
goes out). 

Hiccins [eager/y| Well? Is Eliza presentable [4e sqoops on 
his mother and drags her to the ottoman, where she sits down 
in Eliza’s place with her son on her left)? 

Pickering returns to his chair on her right. 

Mrs HiGGiINs. You silly boy, of course shes not present- 
able. Shes a triumph of your art and of her dressmaker’s ; 
but if you suppose for a moment that she doesnt give 
herself away in every sentence she utters, you must be 
perfectly cracked about her. 

PICKERING. But dont you think something might be done? 
I mean something to eliminate the sanguinary element 
from her conversation. 

mrs HicGins. Not as long as she is in Henry’s hands. 

HIGGINS [aggrieved] Do you mean that my language is 
improper? 

mrs HIGGINS. No, dearest: it would be quite proper— 
say on a canal barge; but it would not be proper for her 
at a garden party. 

HicGINS [deeply injured| Well I must say—. 

PICKERING [interrupting him| Come, Higgins: you must 
learn to know yourself. I havnt heard such language as 
yours since we used to review the volunteers in Hyde Park 
twenty years ago. 

Hiccins [s¢/kily] Oh, well, if you say so, I suppose I dont 
always talk like a bishop. 


Eo Pygmalion Act Il 


MRS HIGGINS [quieting Henry with a touch] Colonel 
Pickering: will you tell me what is the exact state of 
things in Wimpole Street? 

PICKERING [cheerfully: as if this completely changed the 
subject] Well, I have come to live there with Henry. We 
work together at my Indian Dialects; and we think it 
more convenient— 

MRS HIGGINS. Quite so. I know all about that: it’s an 
excellent arrangement. But where does this girl live? 

Hiccins. With us, of course. Where would she live? 

MRS HIGGINS. But on what terms? Is she a servant? If 
not, what is she? 

PICKERING [s/ow/y] I think I know what you mean, Mrs 
Higgins. 

Hiccins. Well, dash me if J do! Ive had to work at the 
girl every day for months to get her to her present pitch. 
Besides, shes useful. She knows where my things are, and 
remembers my appointments and so forth. 

MRS HIGGINS. How does your housekeeper get on with her? 

Hiccins. Mrs Pearce? Oh, shes jolly glad to get so 
much taken off her hands; for before Eliza came,she used 
to have to find things and remind me of my appoint- 
ments. But shes got some silly bee in her bonnet about 
Eliza. She keeps saying “ You dont think, sir” : doesnt 
she, Pick? 

PICKERING. Yes: thats the formula. “You dont think, 
sir.’ Thats the end of every conversation about Eliza. 

Hiccins. As if I ever stop thinking about the girl and her 
confounded vowels and consonants. I’m worn out, thinking 
about her, and watching her lips and her teeth and her 
tongue, not to mention her soul, which is the quaintest of 
the lot. 

MRS HIGGINS. You certainly are a pretty pair of babies, 
playing with your live doll. 

Hiccins. Playing! The hardest job I ever tackled: make 
no mistake about that, mother. But you have no idea how 
frightfully interesting it is to take a human being and 


Act Ill Pygmalion Ga 


change her into a quite different human being by creating 
a new speech for her. It’s filling up the deepest gulf that 
separates class from class and soul from soul. 

PICKERING [drawing his chair closer to Mrs Higgins and 
bending over to her eagerly] Yes: it’s enormously interest- 
ing. I assure you, Mrs Higgins, we take Eliza very 
seriously. Every week—every day almost—there is some 
new change. [Closer again] We keep records of every 
stage—dozens of gramophone disks and photographs— 

Hiccins [assailing her at the other ear| Yes, by George: 
it's the most absorbing experiment I ever tackled. She 
regularly fills our lives up: doesnt she, Pick? 

PICKERING. We’re always talking Eliza. 

HIGGINS. Teaching Eliza. 

PICKERING. Dressing Eliza. 

MRS HIGGINS. What! 

HicciNs. Inventing new Elizas. 

HIGGINS. You know, she has the most 

[speaking |} extraordinary quickness of ear: 

PICKERING. | together] | I assure you, my dear Mrs Higgins, 


that girl 

HIGGINS. just like a parrot. Ive tried her 
with every 

PICKERING. is a genius. She can play the 
plano quite beautifully. 

HIGGINS. possible sort of sound that a 
human being can make— 

PICKERING. We have taken her to classical 
concerts and to music 

HIGGINS. Continental dialects, African dia- 
lects, Hottentot 

PICKERING. halls ; and it’s all the same to her : 
she plays everything 

HIGGINS. clicks, things it took me years to 
get hold of; and 

PICKERING. she hears right off when she comes 


home, whether it’s 


54 Pygmalion Act If 


HIGGINS. she picks them up like a shot, 
[speaking] right away, as if she had 

PICKERING. { together] | Beethoven and Brahms or Lehar 

and Lionel Monckton; 

HIGGINS, been at it all her life. 

PICKERING. though six months ago, she'd never 

as much as touched a piano— 

MRS HIGGINS [putting her fingers in her ears, as they are by 
this time shouting one another down with an intolerable noise] 
Sh-sh-sh—sh! [They stop}. 

PICKERING. I beg your pardon. [He draws his chair back 
apologetically|. 

Hiccins. Sorry. When Pickering starts shouting nobody 
can get a word in edgeways. 

MRS HIGGINS. Be quiet, Henry. Colonel Pickering: dont 
you realize that when Eliza walked into Wimpole Street, 
something walked in with her? 

PICKERING. Her father did. But Henry soon got rid of 
him. 

MRS HIGGINS. It would have been more to the point if her 
mother had. But as her mother didnt something else did. 

PICKERING. But what? 

mrs HIGGIns [amconsciously dating herself by the word| A 
problem. 

PICKERING. Oh, I see. The problem of how to pass her 
off as a lady. 

HiccINS. I'll solve that problem. Ive half solved it 
already. 

mes HIGGINS. No, you two infinitely stupid male 
creatures: the problem of what is to be done with her 
afterwards. 

HIGGINS. I dont see anything in that. She can go her 
own way, with all the advantages I have given her. 

MRs HIGGINs. The advantages of that poor woman who 
was here just now! The manners and habits that disqualify 
a fine lady from earning her own living without giving her 
a fine lady’s income! Is that what you mean? 


Act III Pygmalion 5 


PICKERING [indulgently, being rather bored| Oh, that will 
be all right, Mrs Higgins. [He rises to go]. 

Hiccins [rising also] We'll find her some light employment. 

PICKERING. Shes happy enough. Dont you worry about 
her. Good-bye. [He shakes hands as if he were consoling a 
Jrightened child, and makes for the door}. 

Hiccins. Anyhow, theres no good bothering now. The 
thing’s done. Good-bye, mother. [He kisses her, and follows 
Pickering |. 

PICKERING [turning for a final consolation] There are 
plenty of openings. We’ll do whats right. Good-bye. 

HIGGINS [to Pickering as they go out together] Let’s take 
her to the Shakespear exhibition at Earls Court. 

PICKERING. Yes: lets. Her remarks will be delicious. 

HiccIns. She’ll mimic all the people for us when we get 
home. 

PICKERING. Ripping. [Both are heard laughing as they go 
downstairs). 

MRS HIGGINS [rises with an impatient bounce, and returns to 
her work at the writing-table. She sweeps a litter of dis- 
arranged papers out of her way; snatches a sheet of paper from 
her stationery cases and tries resolutely to write. At the third 
line she gives it up; flings down her pen; grips the table angrily 
and exclaims! Oh, men! men!! men!!! 


ACT IV 


The Wimpole Street laboratory. Midnight. Nobody in the 
room. The clock on the mantelpiece strikes twelve. The fire is 
not alight: it is a summer night. 

Presently Higgins and Pickering are heard on the stairs. 

Hiccins [calling down to Pickering] I say, Pick: lock up, 
will you. I shant be going out again. 

PICKERING. Right. Can Mrs Pearce go to bed? We dont 
want anything more, do we? 

Hiccins. Lord, no! 

Eliza opens the door and is seen on the lighted landing in opera 
cloak, brilliant evening dress, and diamonds, with fan, flowers, 
and all accessories, She comes to the hearth, and switches on the 
electric lights there, She is tired: her pallor contrasts strongly 
with her dark eyes and hair; and ber expression is almost tragic. 
She takes off her cloak; puts her fan and flowers on the piano; 
and sits down on the bench, brooding and silent. Higgins, in 
evening dress, with overcoat and hat, comes in, carrying a 
smoking jacket which he has picked up downstairs. He takes off 
the hat and overcoat; throws them carelessly on the newspaper 
stand; disposes of his coat in the same way; puts on the smoking 
jacket ; and throws himself wearily into the easy-chair at the 
hearth, Pickering, similarly attired, comes in. He also takes off 
bis hat and overcoat, and is about to throw them on Higgins’s 
when he hesitates. 

PICKERING. I say: Mrs Pearce will row if we leave these 
things lying about in the drawing-room. 


56 


Act IV - Pygmalion 57 


Hiccins. Oh, chuck them over the bannisters into the 
hall. She'll find them there in the morning and put them 
away all right. She'll think we were drunk. 

PICKERING. We are, slightly. Are there any letters? 

Hiccins. I didnt look. [Pickering takes the overcoats and 
hats and goes downstairs. Higgins begins half singing half 
yawning an air from La Fanciulla del Golden West. Suddenly 
he stops and exclaims] 1 wonder where the devil my slippers 
are! 

Eliza looks at him darkly; then rises suddenly and leaves the 
room. 

Higgins yawns again, and resumes his song. 

Pickering returns, with the contents of the letter-box in bis 
hand. 

PICKERING. Only circulars, and this coroneted billet-doux 
for you. [He throws the circulars into the fender, and posts 
himself on the hearthrug, with his back to the grate). 

niccins [glancing at the billet-doux|] Money lender. [He 
throws the letter after the circulars}. 

Eliza returns with a pair of large down-at-heel slippers. 
She places them on the carpet before Higgins, and sits as before 
without a word. 

HicGins [ yazuning again] Oh Lord! What an evening! 
What a crew! What a silly tomfoolery! [He raises his shoe 
to unlace it, and catches sight of the slippers. He stops unlacing 
and looks at them as if they had appeared there of their own 
accord |. Oh! theyre there, are they? 

PICKERING [stretching himself] Well, I feel a bit tired. It’s 
been a long day. The garden party, a dinner party, and 
the opera! Rather too much of a good thing. But youve 
won your bet, Higgins. Eliza did the trick, and something 
to spare, eh? 

Hiceains [ fervently] Thank God it’s over! 

Eliza flinches violently; but they take no notice of her; and 
she recovers herself and sits stonily as before. | 

PICKERING. Were you nervous at the garden party? J 
was. Eliza didnt seem a bit nervous. 


58 Pygmalion Act IV 


Hiccins. Oh,she wasnt nervous. I knew she’d be all right. 
No: it’s the strain of putting the job through all these 
months that has told on me. It was interesting enough at 
first, while we were at the phonetics; but after that I got 
deadly sick of it. If I hadnt backed myself to do it I 
should have chucked the whole thing up two months 
ago. It was a silly notion: the whole thing has been a 
bore. 

PICKERING. Oh come! the garden party was frightfully 
exciting. My heart began beating like anything. 

Hiccins., Yes, for the first three minutes. But when I 
saw we were going to win hands down, I felt like a bear 
in a cage, hanging about doing nothing. The dinner was 
worse : sitting gorging there for over an hour, with nobody 
but a damned fool of a fashionable woman to talk to! I 
tell you, Pickering, never again for me. No more arti- 
ficial duchesses. ‘The whole thing has been simple pur- 
gatory. 

PICKERING. Youve never been broken in properly to the 
social routine. [Strolling over to the piano} 1 rather enjoy 
dipping into it occasionally myself: it makes me feel 
young again. Anyhow, it was a great success: an Immense 
success. I was quite frightened once or twice because Eliza 
was doing it so well. You see, lots of the real people cant 
do it at all: theyre such fools that they think style comes 
by nature to people in their position; and so they never 
learn. Theres always something professional about doing 
a thing superlatively well. 

HIGGINS. Yes: thats what drives me mad: the silly people 
dont know their own silly business. [Rising] However, 
it’s over and done with; and now I can go to bed at last 
without dreading tomorrow. 

Eliza’s beauty becomes murderous, 

PICKERING. I think I shall turn in too. Still, it’s been a 
great occasion: a triumph for you. Good-night. [He goes]. 

HicGiNS [ following him] Good-night. [Over his shoulder, 
at the door] Put out the lights, Eliza; and tell Mrs Pearce 


Act IV Pygmalion 


not to make coffee for me in the morning: [’ll take tea. 
[He goes out}. 

Eliza tries to control herself and feel indifferent as she 
rises and walks across to the hearth to switch off the lights. By 
the time she gets there she is on the point of screaming. She 
sits down in Higgins’s chair and holds on hard to the arms. 
Finally she gives way and flings herself furiously on the floor, 
raging. 

HIGGINS [in despairing wrath outside] What the devil have 
I done with my slippers? [He appears at the door). 

Liza [snatching up the shippers, and hurling them at him one 
after the other with all her force) There are your slippers. 
And there. Take your slippers; and may you never have a 
day’s luck with them! 

Hiccins [astounded] What on earth—! [He comes to her]. 
Whats the matter? Get up. [He pulls her up|. Anything 
wrong? 

Liza [breathless] Nothing wrong—with you. Ive won 
your bet for you, havnt I? Thats enough for you. J dont 
matter, I suppose. 

Hiccins. You won my bet! You! Presumptuous insect ! 
I won it. What did you throw those slippers at me 
for? 

Liza. Because | wanted to smash your face. I’d like to 
kill you, you selfish brute. Why didnt you leave me where 
you picked me out of—in the gutter? You thank God it’s 
all over, and that now you can throw me back again there, 
do you? [She crisps her fingers frantically]. 

HiGccins [looking at her in cool wonder| The creature is ner- 
vous, after all. 

Liza [gives a suffocated scream of fury, and instinctively 
darts her nails at his face\'! 

HicGcins [catching her wrists| Ah! would you? Claws in, 
you cat. How dare youshew your tempertome? Sit down 
and be quiet. [He throws her roughly into the easy chair]. 

Liza [crushed by superior strength and weight} Whats to 
become of me? Whats to become of me? 


60 Pygmalion Act 1V 


Hiccins. How the devil do I know whats to become of 
you? What does it matter what becomes of you? 

Liza. You dont care. I know you dont care. You 
wouldnt care if I was dead. I’m nothing to you—not so 
much as them slippers. 

HIGGINS [thundering] ‘Those slippers. 

Liza [with bitter submission] Those slippers. I didnt 
think it made any difference now. 

A pause. Eliza hopeless and crushed. Higgins a little uneasy. 

Hiccins [in his loftiest manner| Why have you begun going 
on like this? May I ask whether you complain of your 
treatment here? 

Liza. No. 

HicciIns. Has anybody behaved badly to you? Colonel 
Pickering? Mrs Pearce? Any of the servants? 

Liza. No. 

HIGGINS. I presume you dont pretend that J have treated 
you badly? 

Liza. No. 

HiccINns. I am glad to hear it. [He moderates his tone]. 
Perhaps youre tired after the strain of the day. Will you 
have a glass of champagne? [He moves towards the door]. 

Liza. No. [Recollecting her manners] 'Thank you. 

HIGGINS [ good-humored again] ‘This has been coming on 
you for some days. I suppose it was natural for you to 
be anxious about the garden party. But thats all over now. 
[He pats her kindly on the shoulder. She writhes]. Theres 
nothing more to worry about. 

uizA. No. Nothing more for you to worry about. [She 
suddenly rises and gets away from him by going to the piano 
bench, where she sits and hides her face]. Oh God! I wish 
I was dead. 

HicGINS [staring after her in sincere surprise] Why: In 
heaven’s name, why? [Reasonably, going to her| Listen to 
me, Eliza. All this irritation is purely subjective. 

uiza. I dont understand. I’m too ignorant. 

HiccINs. It’s only imagination. Low spirits and nothing 


Act IV Pygmalion 61 


else. Nobody’s hurting you. Nothing’s wrong. You go 
to bed like a good girl and sleep it off. Have a little cry 
and say your prayers: that will make you comfortable. 

uiza. I heard your prayers. “’Thank God it’s all 
over!” 

HiccIns [impatiently] Well, dont you thank God it’s all 
over? Now you are free and can do what you like. 

uiza [pulling herself together in desperation] What am I 
fit for? What have you left me fit for? Where am I to 
go? What am I todo? Whats to become of me? 

Hiccins [exlightened, but not at all impressed] Oh, thats 
whats worrying you, is it? [He thrusts his hands into his pockets, 
and walks about in his usual manner, ratthng the contents of his 
pockets, as if condescending to a trivial subject out of pure kind- 
ness}. I shouldnt bother about it if I were you. I should 
imagine you wont have much difficulty in settling yourself 
somewhere or other, though I hadnt quite realized that you 
were going away. [She looks quickly at him: he does not look at 
her, but examines the dessert stand on the piano and decides that 
he will eat an apple). You might marry, you know. [He d:tes 
a large piece out of the apple and munches it noisily}. You see, 
Eliza, all men are not confirmed old bachelors like me and 
the Colonel. Most men are the marrying sort (poor devils !) ; 
and youre not bad-looking: it’s quite a pleasure to look at 
you sometimes—not now, of course, because youre crying 
and looking as ugly as the very devil; but when youre all 
right and quite yourself, youre what I should call attractive. 
That is, to the people in the marrying line, you understand. 
You go to bed and have a good nice rest; and then get up 
and look at yourself in the glass; and you wont feel so 
cheap. 

Eliza again looks at him, speechless, and does not stir. 

The look is quite lost on him: he eats his apple with a dreamy 
expression of happiness, as it 1s quite a good one. 

Hiccins [@ genial afterthought occurring to him] I daresay 
my mother could find some chap or other who would do 
very well. 


62 Pygmalion Act IV 


11za. We were above that at the corner of Tottenham 
Court Road. 

HIGGINS [waking up] What do you mean? 

Liza. I sold flowers. I didnt sell myself. Now youve 
made a lady of me I’m not fit to sell anything else. I wish 
youd left me where you found me. 

Hiccins [slinging the core of the apple decisively into the 
grate} Tosh, Eliza. Dont you insult human relations by 
dragging all this cant about buying and selling into it. 
You neednt marry the fellow if you dont like him. 

Liza. What else am I to do? 

HIGGINS. Oh, lots of things. What about your old idea 
of a florist’s shop? Pickering could set you up in one: hes 
lots of money. [C4uck/ing| He'll have to pay for all those togs 
you have been wearing to-day; and that, with the hire of 
the jewellery, will make a big hole in two hundred pounds. 
Why, six months ago you would have thought it the 
millennium to have a flower shop of your own. Come! 
youll be all right. I must clear off to bed: I’m devilish 
sleepy. By the way, I came down for something: I forget 
what it was. 

Liza. Your slippers. 

Hiccins. Oh yes, of course. You shied them at me. [He 
picks them up, and is going out when she rises and speaks to 
him). 

L1za. Before you go, sir— 

HIGGINS [dropping the slippers in his surprise at her calling 
him Sir| Eh? 

Liza. Do my clothes belong to me or to Colonel 
Pickering? 

HIGGINS [coming back into the room as if her question were 
the very climax of unreason| What the devil use would they 
be to Pickering? 

uiza. He might want them for the next girl you pick 
up to experiment on. 

HIGGINS [shocked and hurt] Is that the way you feel 
towards us? 


Act IV Pygmalion 63 


uiza. I dont want to hear anything more about that. All 
I want to know is whether anything belongs tome. My 
own clothes were burnt. 

HIGGINs. But what does it matter? Why need you start 
bothering about that in the middle of the night? 

uza. | want to know what I may take away with me. 
I dont want to be accused of stealing. 

Hiccins [zow deeply wounded| Stealing! You shouldnt 
have said that, Eliza. That shews a want of feeling. 

uiza. I’m sorry. I’m only a common ignorant girl; and 
in my station I have to be careful. There cant be any 
feelings between the like of you and the like of me. Please 
will you tell me what belongs to me and what doesnt. 

Hiccins [very sulky] You may take the whole damned 
houseful if you like. Except the jewels. Theyre hired. 
Will that satisfy you? [He turus on bis heel and is about to 
go in extreme dudgeon). 

uiza [drinking in his emotion like nectar, and nagging him to 
provoke a further supply| Stop, please. [Sse takes off her 
jewels}, Will you take these to your room and keep them 
safe? I dont want to run the risk of their being missing. 

Hiccins [ furious] Hand them over. [S#e puts them into 
his hands}. If these belonged to me instead of to the jeweller, 
I’d ram them down your ungrateful throat. [He per- 
functorily thrusts them into his pockets, unconsciously decorating 
himself with the protruding ends of the chains). 

Liza [taking a ring off | This ring isnt the jeweller’s: 
it’s the one you bought me in Brighton. I dont want it 
now. [Higgins dashes the ring violently into the fireplace, and 
turns on her so threateningly that she crouches over the piano 
with her hands over her face, and exclaims| Dont you hit me. 

HiccIns. Hit you! You infamous creature, how dare you 
accuse me of such a thing? It is you who have hit me. 
You have wounded me to the heart. 

uiza [thrilling with hidden joy| \’m glad. Ive got a little 
of my own back, anyhow. 

niccins [with dignity, in his finest professional style} You 


64 Pygmalion Act IV 


have caused me to lose my temper: a thing that has hardly 
ever happened to me before. I prefer to say nothing more 
tonight. I am going to bed. 

Liza [ pertly] Youd better leave a note for Mrs. Pearce 
about the coffee; for she wont be told by me. 

HiccIns [ formally] Damn Mrs. Pearce; and damn the 
coffee; and damn you; and damn my own folly in having 
lavished hard-earned knowledge and the treasure of my 
regard and intimacy on a heartless guttersnipe. [He goes 
out with impressive decorum, and spoils it by slamming the door 
savagely |. 

Eliza smiles for the first time; expresses her feelings by a 
wild pantomime in which an imitation of Higgins’s exit is con- — 
Jused with her own triumph; and finally goes down on her knees 
on the hearthrug to look for the ring. 


ACT V 


Mrs Higgins’s drawing-room. She is at her writing-table as 
before. The parlor-maid comes in. 


THE PARLOR-MaID [at the door] Mr Henry, mam, is down- 
stairs with Colonel Pickering. 

Mrs Hiccins. Well, shew them up. 

THE PARLOR-MaID. Theyre using the telephone, mam. 
Telephoning to the police, I think. 

Mrs HIGGINS. What! 

THE PARLOR-MAID [coming further in and lowering her 
voice| Mr Henry is in a state, mam. I thought I’d better 
tell you. 

mrs Hicoins. If you had told me that Mr Henry was not 
in a state it would have been more surprising. Tell them 
to come up when theyve finished with the police. I suppose 
hes lost something. 

THE PARLOR-MAID, Yes, mam [going]. 

Mrs Hiccins. Go upstairs and tell Miss Doolittle that 
Mr Henry and the Colonel are here. Ask her not to come 
down til I send for her. 

THE PARLOR-MAID. Yes, mam. 

Higgins bursts in. He is, as the parlor-maid has Said, in a 
State. 

Hiccins. Look here, mother: heres a confounded thing! 

mrs Hiccins. Yes, dear. Good-morning. [He checks his 
impatience and kisses her, whilst the parlor- maid goes out]. 
What is it? 

65 F 


66 Pygmalion Act V 

HIGGINS. Eliza’s bolted. 

MRS HIGGINS [calmly continuing her writing) You must 
have frightened her. 

HIGGINS. Frightened her! nonsense! She was left last 
night, as usual, to turn out the lights and all that; and 
instead of going to bed she changed her clothes and went 
right off: her bed wasnt slept in. She came in a cab for 
her things before seven this morning; and that fool Mrs 
Pearce let her have them without telling me a word about 
it. What am I to do? 

Mrs HIGGINS. Do without, I’m afraid, Henry. The girl 
has a perfect right to leave if she chooses. 

HIGGINS [wandering distractedly across the room| But I 
cant find anything. I dont know what appointments Ive 
got. I’m— [Pickering comes in. Mrs Higgins puts down her 
pen and turns away from the writing-table). 

PICKERING [shaking hands] Good-morning, Mrs Higgins. 
Has Henry told you? [He sits down on the ottoman). 

HIccIns. What does that ass of an inspector say? Have 
you offered a reward? 

MRS HIGGINS [rising in indignant amazement| You dont 
mean to say you have set the police after Eliza. 

HIGGINS. Of course. What are the police for? What 
else could we do? [He sits in the Elizabethan chair). 

PICKERING. The inspector made a lot of difficulties. I 
really think he suspected us of some improper purpose. 

MRS HIGGINS. Well, of course he did. What right have 
you to go to the police and give the girl’s name as if she 
were a thief, or a lost umbrella, or something? Really! 
[She sits down again, deeply vexed]. 

HIGGINS. But we want to find her. 

PICKERING. We cant let her go like this, you know, Mrs 
Higgins. What were we to do? 

MRS HIGGINS. You have no more sense, either of you, 
than two children. Why— 

The parlor-maid comes in and breaks off the conversation. 

THE PARLOR-MAID. Mr Henry: a gentleman wants to 


Act V Pygmalion 67 


see you very particular. Hes been sent on from Wimpole 
Street. 

Hiccins. Oh, bother! I cantsee anyone now. Whoisit? 

THE PpaRLoR-MaID. A Mr Doolittle, sir. 

PICKERING. Doolittle! Do you mean the dustman? 

THE PARLOR-MaID. Dustman! Oh no, sir: a gentleman. 

HIGGINS [springing up excitedly] By George, Pick, it’s 
some relative of hers that shes gone to. Somebody we 
know nothing about. [To the parlor-maid| Send him up, 
quick. 

THE PARLOR-MAID. Yes, sir. [She goes]. 

Hiccins [eagerly, going to his mother] Genteel relatives! 
now we shall hear something. [He sits down in the Chippen- 
dale chair). 

Mrs HIGGINS. Do you know any of her people? 

PICKERING. Only her father: the fellow we told you about. 

THE PARLOR-MAID [aznouncing| Mr Doolittle. [She with- 
draws]. 

Doolittle enters. He is brilliantly dressed in a new a ae 
Srock- -coat, with white waistcoat and grey trousers. A flower 
in bis buttonbole, a dazzling silk hat, and patent leather shoes 
complete the effect. He is too concerned with the business he has 
come on to notice Mrs Higgins. He walks straight to Higgins, 
and accosts him with vehement reproach. 

DooLiTrLeE [indicating his own person] See here! Do you 
see this? You done this. 

HIGGINS. Done what, man? 

poouiTrLE. This, I tell you. Look at it. Look at this 
hat. Look at this coat. 

PICKERING. Has Eliza been buying you clothes? 

pooLitrLe. Eliza! not she. Not half. Why would she 
buy me clothes? 

MRs HiccIns. Good-morning, Mr Doolittle. Wont you 
sit down? 

DOOLITTLE [taken aback as he becomes conscious that he has 
forgotten his hostess! Asking your pardon, maam. [He ap- 
proaches her and shakes her proffered hana), ‘Thank you. [He 


68 Pygmalion Act V 


sits down on the ottoman, on Pickering’s right]. Iam that full 
of what has happened to me that I cant think of anything 
else. 

HiccIns. What the dickens has happened to you? 

pooLiTTLe. I shouldnt mind if it had only happened 
to me: anything might happen to anybody and nobody to 
blame but Providence, as you might say. But this is some- 
thing that you done to me: yes, you, Henry Higgins. 

HiccINs. Have you found Eliza? Thats the point. 

DOOLITTLE. Have you lost her? 

HIccins. Yes. 

DOOLITTLE. You haveall the luck, you have. I aint found 
her; but she’ll find me quick enough now after what you 
done to me. 

MRS Hiccins. But what has my son done to you, Mr 
Doolittle? 

DOOLITTLE. Done to me! Ruined me. Destroyed my 
happiness. ‘Tied me up and delivered me into the hands 
of middle class morality. 7 

HIGGINS [rising intolerantly and standing over Doolittle] 
Youre raving. Youre drunk. Youre mad. I gave you five 
pounds. After that I had two conversations with you, at 
half-a-crown an hour. Ive never seen you since. 

pooutitrLeE. Oh! Drunk! am Il? Mad! amI? Tell me 
this. Did you or did you not write a letter to an old 
blighter in America that was giving five millions to found 
Moral Reform Societies all over the world, and that wanted 
you to invent a universal language for him? 

Hiccins. What! Ezra D. Wannafeller! Hes dead. [He 
sits down again carelessly), 

DOOLITTLE. Yes: hes dead; and I’m done for. Now 
did you or did you not write a letter to him to say that 
the most original moralist at present in England, to the 
best of your knowledge, was Alfred Doolittle, a common 
dustman. 

Hiccins. Oh, after your last visit I remember making 
some silly joke of the kind. — 





Act V Pygmalion 69 


pooLiTTLE. Ah! you may well call it a silly joke. It 
put the lid on me right enough. Just give him the chance 
he wanted to shew that Americans is not like us: that 
they recognize and respect merit in every class of life, 
however humble. Them words is in his blooming will, in 
which, Henry Higgins, thanks to your silly joking, he 
leaves me a share in his Pre-digested Cheese Trust worth 
three thousand a year on condition that I lecture for his 
Wannafeller Moral Reform World League as often as they 
ask me up to six times a year. 

HiccIns. The devil he does! Whew! [Brightening 
suddenly| What a lark! 

PICKERING. A safe thing for you, Doolittle. They wont 
ask you twice. 

DOOLITTLE. It aint the lecturing I mind. I'll lecture 
them blue in the face, I will, and not turn a hair. It’s 
making a gentleman of me that I object to. Who asked 
him to make a gentleman of me? I was happy. I was free. 
I touched pretty nigh everybody for money when I wanted 
it, same as I touched you, Henry Higgins. Now I] am 
worrited; tied neck and heels; and everybody touches me 
for money. It’s a fine thing for you, says my solicitor. Is 
it? says I. You mean it’s a good thing for you, I says. 
When I was a poor man and had a solicitor once when 
they found a pram in the dust cart, he got me off, and got 
shut of me and got me shut of him as quick as he could. 
Same with the doctors: used to shove me out of the hos- 
pital before I could hardly stand on my legs, and nothing 
to pay. Now they finds out that I’m not a healthy man 
and cant live unless they looks after me twice a day. In 
the house I’m not let do a hand’s turn for myself: some- 
body else must do it and touch me for it. A year ago 
I hadnt a relative in the world except two or three that 
wouldnt speak to me. Now I’ve fifty, and not a decent 
week’s wages among the lot of them. I have to live for others 
and not for myself: thats middle class morality. You talk 
of losing Eliza. Dont you be anxious : I bet shes on my door- 


70 Pygmalion Act V 


step by this: she that could support herself easy by selling 
flowers 1f I wasnt respectable. And the next one to touch 
me will be you, Henry Higgins. I’ll have to learn to speak 
middle class language from you, instead of speaking proper 
English. Thats where youll come in; and I daresay thats 
what you done it for. 

Mrs HIGGINS. But, my dear Mr Doolittle, you need not 
suffer all this if you are really in earnest. Nobody can force 
you to accept this bequest. You can repudiate it. Isnt that 
so, Colonel Pickering? 

PICKERING. I believe so. 

DOOLITTLE [softening his manner in deference to her sex] 
Thats the tragedy of it, maam. It’s easy to say chuck it; 
but I havnt the nerve. Which of us has? We’re all in- 
timidated. Intimidated, maam: thats what we are. What 
is there for me if I chuck it but the workhouse in my old 
age? I have to dye my hair already to keep my jobasa 
dustman. If I was one of the deserving poor, and had put 
by a bit, I could chuck it; but then why should I, acause 
the deserving poor might as well be millionaires for all the 
happiness they ever has. They dont know what happiness 
is. But J, as one of the undeserving poor, have nothing 
between me and the pauper’s uniform but this here blasted 
three thousand a year that shoves me into the middle class, 
(Excuse the expression, maam: youd use it yourself if you 
had my provocation.) Theyve got you every way you turn: 
it’s a choice between the Skilly of the workhouse and the 
Char Bydis of the middle class; and I havnt the nerve for 
the workhouse. Intimidated: thats what I am. Broke. 
Bought up. Happier men than me will call for my dust, 
and touch me for their tip; and I'll look on helpless, and 
envy them. And thats what your son has brought me to. 
[He is overcome by emotion]. 

mrs HIGGINS. Well, I’m very glad youre not going to do 
anything foolish, Mr Doolittle. For this solves the problem 
of Eliza’s future. You can provide for her now. 

DOOLITTLE [with melancholy resignation] Yes,maam : I’mex- 





Act V Pygmalion 7a 


pected to provide for everyone now, out of three thousand a 
ear. 

. HIGGINS [ jumping up| Nonsense! he cant provide for her. 

He shant provide for her. She doesnt belong to him. I 

paid him five pounds for her. Doolittle: either youre an 

honest man or a rogue. 

DOOLITTLE [tol/erantly| A little of both, Henry, like the 
rest of us: a little of both. 

HIGGINS. Well, you took that money for the girl; and you 
have no right to take her as well. 

Mrs Hiccins. Henry: dont be absurd. If you want to 
know where Eliza is, she is upstairs. 

HiccInsS [amazed| Upstairs!!! Then I shall jolly soon 
fetch her downstairs. [He makes resolutely for the door). 

MRS HIGGINS [rising and following him] Be quiet, Henry. 
Sit down. 

HIGGINS. I— 

MRS HIGGINS. Sit down, dear; and listen to me. 

HIGGINS. Oh very well, very well, very well. [He throws 
himself ungraciously on the ottoman, with his face towards the 
windows|. But I think you might have told us this half an 
hour ago. 

MRs HIGGINS. Eliza came to me this morning. She passed 
the night partly walking about in a rage, partly trying to 
throw herself into the river and being afraid to, and partly 
in the Carlton Hotel. She told me of the brutal way you 
two treated her. 

HIGGINS [ bounding up again| What! 

PICKERING [rising also] My dear Mrs Higgins, shes been 
telling you stories. We didnt treat her brutally. We hardly 
said aword to her ; and we parted on particularly good terms. 
[Turning on Higgins]. Higgins: did you bully her after I 
went to bed? 

HIGGINS. Just the other way about. She threw my slippers 
in my face. She behaved in thé most outrageous way. I 
never gave her the slightest provocation. The slippers 
came bang into my face the moment I entered the room— 


74 Pygmalion Act V 


before I had uttered a word. And used perfectly awful 
language. 

PICKERING [astonished| But why? What did we do to her? 

mrs HIGGINS. I think I know pretty well what you did. 
The girl is naturally rather affectionate, 1 think. Isnt she, 
Mr Doolittle? 

DOOLITTLE. Very tender-hearted, maam. Takes after me. 

MRS HIGGINS. Just so. She had become attached to you 
both. She worked very hard for you, Henry! I dont think 
you quite realize what anything in the nature of brain work 
means toa girl like that. Well, it seems that when the great 
day of trial came, and she did this wonderful thing for you 
without making a single mistake, you two sat there and 
never said a word to her, but talked together of how glad 
you were that it was all over and how you had been bored 
with the whole thing. And then you were surprised because 
she threw your slippers at you! J should have thrown the 
fire-irons at you. 

HIGGINS. We said nothing except that we were tired and 
wanted to go to bed. Did we, Pick? 

PICKERING [shrugging his shoulders| ‘That was all. 

mrs HIGGINS [ironically| Quite sure? 

PICKERING. Absolutely. Really, that was all. 

Mrs HiGGINs. You didnt thank her, or pet her, or admire 
her, or tell her how splendid she’d been. 

HIGGINS [impatiently] But she knew all about that. We 
didnt make speeches to her, if thats what you mean. 

PICKERING [conscience stricken] Perhaps we were a little 
inconsiderate. Is she very angry? 

Mrs HIGGINS [returning to her place at the writing-table] 
Well, I’m afraid she wont go back to Wimpole Street, 
especially now that Mr Doolittle is able to keep up the 
position you have thrust on her; but she says she is quite 
willing to meet you on friendly terms and to let bygones 
be bygones. 

niccins [ furious] Is she, by George? Ho! 

mrs HiGccins. If you promise to behave yourself, Henry, 


Act V Pygmalion 73 


I’ll ask her to come down, If not, go home; for you have 
taken up quite enough of my time. 

Hiccins. Oh,all right. Verywell. Pick : you behave your- 
self. Let us put on our best Sunday manners for this 
creature that we picked out of the mud. [He flings himself 
sulkily into the Elizabethan chair]. 

DOOLITTLE [remonstrating| Now, now, Henry Higgins! 
have some consideration for my feelings as a middle class 
man. . 

MRS HIGGINS. Remember your promise, Henry. [S#e presses 
the bell-button on the writing-table|. Mr Doolittle: will you be 
so good as to step out on the balcony for a moment. I dont 
want Eliza to have the shock of your news until she has 
made it up with these two gentlemen. Would you mind? 

DOOLITTLE. As you wish, lady. Anything to help Henry 
to keep her off my hands. [He disappears through the window}. 

The parlor-maid answers the bell, Pickering sits down in 
Dookttle’s place. 

mrs HiccIns. Ask Miss Doolittle to come down, please. 

THE PARLOR-MAID. Yes, mam. [Se goes out]. 

mrs HiGGcINs. Now, Henry: be good. 

HIGGINS. I am behaving myself perfectly. 

PICKERING. He is doing his best, Mrs Higgins. 

A pause. Higgins throws back his head; stretches out his 
legs ; and begins to whistle. 

mrs HIGGINS. Henry, dearest, you dont look at all nice in 
that attitude. 

nicains [ pulling himself together| I was not trying to look 
nice, mother. 

mrs Hiccins. It doesnt matter, dear. I only wanted to 
make you speak. 

Hiccins. Why? 

MRS HIGGINS. Because you cant speak and whistle at the 
same time. 

Higgins groans. Another very trying pause. 

HIGGINS [Springing up, out of patience] Where the devil 1s 
that girl? Are we to wait here all day? 


74. Pygmalion Act V 


Eliza enters, sunny, self-possessed, and giving a staggeringly 
convincing exhibition of ease of manner. She carries a little 
work-basket, and is very much at home. Pickering is too much 
taken aback to rise. 

L1za. How do you do, Professor Higgins? Are you quite 
well? 

Hiccins [choking] Am I— [He can no more}. 

tiza. But of course you are: you are never ill. So glad 
to see you again, Colonel Pickering. [He rises hastily ; and 
they shake hands}. Quite chilly this morning, isnt it? [Sse 
sits down on his left. He sits beside her). 

Hiccins. Dont you dare try this game on me. I taught 
it to you; and it doesnt take me in. Get up and come 
home; and dont be a fool. 

Eliza takes a piece of needlework from her basket, and begins 
to stitch at it, without taking the least notice of this outburst. 

Mrs HIGGINS. Very nicely put, indeed, Henry. No woman 
could resist such an invitation. 

Hiccins, You let her alone, mother. Let her speak for 
herself. You will jolly soon see whether she has an idea 
that I havnt put into her head or a word that IT havnt put 
into her mouth. I tell you I have created this thing out of 
the squashed cabbage leaves of Covent Garden ; and now 
she pretends to play the fine lady with me. 

Mrs Hicains [ p/acidly] Yes, dear; but youll sit down, wont 

out 
Higgins sits down again, savagely. 

Liza [to Pickering, taking no apparent notice of Higgins, and 
working away deftly} Will you drop me altogether now 
that the experiment is over, Colonel Pickering? 

PICKERING. Oh dont. You mustnt think of it as an ex- 
periment. It shocks me, somehow. 

u1za. Oh, I’m only a squashed cabbage leaf— 

PICKERING [impulsively] No. 

Liza [continuing quietly] — but I owe so much to you 
that I should be very unhappy if you forgot me. 

PICKERING. It’s very kind of you to say so, Miss Doolittle. 





Act V Pygmalion Ts 


Liza. It’s not because you paid for my dresses. I know 
you are generous to everybody with money. But it was from 
you that I learnt really nice manners; and that is what 
makes one a lady, isnt it? You see it was so very difficult for 
me with the example of Professor Higgins always before 
me. I was brought up to be just like him, unable to control 
myself, and using bad language on the slightest provoca- 
tion. And I should never have known that ladies and gentle- 
men didnt behave like that if you hadnt been there. 

Hicctns. Well! ! 

PICKERING. Qh, thats only his way, you know. He doesnt 
mean it. 

Liza. Oh, J didnt mean it either, when I was a flower 
girl. It was only my way. But you see I did it; and thats 
what makes the difference after all. 

PICKERING. Nodoubt. Still, he taught you to speak ; and 
I couldnt have done that, you know. 

Liza [trivia/ly| Of course: that is his profession. 

HIccINs. Damnation! 

L1za [continuing] It was just like learning to dance in the 
fashionable way: there was nothing more than that in it. 
But do you know what began my real education? 

PICKERING. What? 

Liza [stopping her work for a moment| Your calling me Miss 
Doolittle that day when I first came to Wimpole Street. 
That was the beginning of self-respect for me. [She resumes 
her stitching|, And there were a hundred little things you 
never noticed, because they came naturally to you. Things 
about standing up and taking off your hat and opening 
doors— 

PICKERING. Oh, that was nothing. 

uiza. Yes: things that shewed you thought and felt about 
me as if I were something better than a scullery-maid; 
though of course I know you would have been just the 
same to a scullery-maid if she had been let into the drawing- 
room. You never took off your boots in the dining-room 
when I was there. 


76 Pygmalion Act V 


PICKERING. You mustnt mind that. Higgins takes off his 
boots all over the place. 

uiza. I know. I am not blaming him. It is his way, isnt 
it? But it made such a difference to me that you didnt 
do it. You see, really and truly, apart from the things any- 
one can pick up (the dressing and the proper way of speak- 
ing, and so on), the difference between a lady and a flower 
girl is not how she behaves, but how shes treated. I shall 
always be a flower girl to Professor Higgins, because he 
always treats me as a flower girl, and always will; but I 
know I can be a lady to you, because you always treat me 
as a lady, and always will. 

MRS HIGGINS. Please dont grind your teeth, Henry. 

PICKERING. Well, this is really very nice of you, Miss 
Doolittle. 

uiza. I should like you to call me Eliza, now, if you 
would. 

PICKERING. Thank you. Eliza, of course. 

tiza. And I should like Professor Higgins to call me Miss 
Doolittle. 

niccins. I’1] see you damned first. 

mrs HIGGINS. Henry! Henry! 

PICKERING. [/aughing| Why dont you slang back at him? 
Dont stand it. It would do him a lot of good. 

Liza. I cant. I could have done it once; but now I 
cant go back toit. Last night, when I was wandering about, 
a girl spoke to me; and I tried to get back into the old 
way with her; but it was no use. You told me, you know, 
that when a child is brought to a foreign country, it picks up 
the language in a few weeks, and forgets its own. Well, 
Iamachild in your country. I have forgotten my own 
language, and can speak nothing but yours. Thats the 
real break-off with the corner of Tottenham Court Road. 
Leaving Wimpole Street finishes it. 

PICKERING [much alarmed| Oh! but youre coming back to 
Wimpole Street, arnt you? Youll forgive Higgins? 

nicains [rising] Forgive! Will she, by George! Let her 





Act V Pygmalion 77, 


go. Let her find out how she can get on without us. She 
will relapse into the gutter in three weeks without me at 
her elbow. 

Doolittle appears at the centre window. With a look of 
dignified reproach at Higgins, he comes slowly and silently to his 
daughter, who, with her back to the window, is unconscious of his 
approach. 

PICKERING. Hes incorrigible, Eliza. You wont relapse, 
will you? ; 

Liza. No: not now. Never again. I have learnt my lesson. 
I dont believe I could utter one of the oid sounds if I 
tried. [ Doolittle touches her on her left shoulder. She drops her 
work, losing her self-possession utterly at the spectacle of her 

Jather’s splendor| A-a-a-a-a-ah-ow-ooh ! 

HicGINs [with a crow of triumph] Aha! Just so. A-a-a-a- 
ahowooh! A-a-a-a-ahowooh! A-a-a-a-ahowooh! Victory! 
Victory! [He throws himself on the divan, folding his arms, 
and spraddling arrogantly). 

DOOLITTLE. Can you blame the girl? Dont look at me 
like that, Eliza. It aint my fault. Ive come into some 
money. 

Liza. You must have touched a millionaire this time, 
dad. 

pooLiTTLe. [ have. But I’m dressed something special 
today. I’m going to St. George’s, Hanover Square. Your 
stepmother is going to marry me. 

11za [angrily] Youre going to let yourself down to marry 
that low common woman! 

PICKERING [guzet/y] He ought to, Eliza. [To Dookttle] 
Why has she changed her mind? 

DOOLITTLE [sad/y] Intimidated, Governor. Intimidated. 
Middle class morality claims its victim. Wont you put on 
your hat, Liza, and come and see me turned off? 

uiza. If the Colonel says I must, I—Tl [a/most sobbing | 
I'll demean myself. And get insulted for my pains, like 
enough. 

DOOLITTLE. Dont be afraid: she never comes to words 


78 Pygmalion Act V 


with anyone now, poor woman! respectability has broke 
all the spirit out of her. 

PICKERING [squeezing Eliza’s elbow gently] Be kind to 
them, Eliza. Make the best of it. 

Liza | forcing a little smile for him through her vexation| Oh 
well, just to shew theres no ill feeling. I'll be back ina 
moment. [She goes out]. 

DOOLITTLE [sitting down beside Pickering] I feel uncommon 
nervous about the ceremony, Colonel. I wish youd come 
and see me through it. 

PICKERING. But youve been through it before, man. You 
were married to Eliza’s mother. 

DOOLITTLE. Who told you that, Colonel? 

PICKERING. Well, nobody told me. But I concluded— 
naturally — 

pDOooLITTLE. No: that aint the natural way, Colonel: it’s 
only the middle class way. My way was always the un- 
deserving way. But dont say nothing to Eliza. She dont 
know: I always had a delicacy about telling her. 

PICKERING. Quite right. We'll leave it so, if you dont 
mind. 

DOOLITTLE. And youll come to the church, Colonel, 
and put me through straight? 

PickERiING. With pleasure. As far as a bachelor can. 

Mrs HIGGINS. May I come, Mr Doolittle? I should be 
very sorry to miss your wedding. 

poouirrLe. I should indeed be honored by your con- 
descension, maam; and my poor old woman would take it 
as a tremenjous compliment. Shes been very low, thinking 
of the happy days that are no more. 

Mrs HiGGins [rising] I'll order the carriage and get ready. 
[ Zhe men rise, except Higgins|. I shant be more than fifteen 
minutes. [4s she goes to the door Eliza comes in, hatted and 
buttoning her gloves|. I’m going to the church to see your 
father married, Eliza. You had better come in the 
brougham with me. Colonel Pickering can go on with the 
bridegroom. 


Act V Pygmalion 79 


Mrs Higgins goes out. Eliza comes to the middle of the room 
between the centre window and the ottoman. Pickering joins her. 

DOOLITTLE. Bridegroom! What a word! It makes a 
man realize his position, somehow. [He takes up his hat and 
goes towards the door). 

PICKERING. Before I go, Eliza, do forgive him and come 
back to us. 

uiza. 1 dont think papa would allow me. Would you, 
dad? 

DOOLITTLE [sad but magnanimous| They played you off 
very cunning, Eliza, themtwosportsmen. Ifit had been only 
one of them, you could have nailed him. But you see, there 
was two; and one of them chaperoned the other, as you 
might say. [To Pickering| It was artful of you, Colonel; but 
I bear no malice: I should have done the same myself. 
I been the victim of one woman after another all my life; 
and I dont grudge you two getting the better of Eliza. I 
shant interfere. It’s time for us to go, Colonel. So long, 
Henry. See you in St. George’s, Eliza. [He goes out). 

PICKERING [coaxing] Do stay with us, Eliza. [He follows 
Doolittle}. 

Eliza goes out on the balcony to avoid being alone with 
Higgins. He rises and joins her there. She immediately comes 
back into the room and makes for the door; but he goes along the 
balcony quickly and gets his back to the door before she reaches it. 

Hiccins. Well, Eliza, youve had a bit of your own back, 
as you call it. Have you had enough? and are you going to 
be reasonable? Or do you want any more? 

Liza. You want me back only to pick up your slippers 
and put up with your tempers and fetch and carry for you. 

HiccIns. I havnt said I wanted you back at all. 

uizA. Oh, indeed. Then what are we talking about? 

HicGIns. About you, not about me. If you come back I 
shall treat you just as I have always treated you. I cant 
change my nature; and J] dont intend to change my 
manners. My manners are exactly the same as Colonel 
Pickering’s. 


80 Pygmalion Act V 


Liza. Thats not true. He treats a flower girl as if she 
was a duchess. 

Hiccins. And I treat a duchess as if she was a flower girl. 

Liza. I see. [She turns away composedly, and sits on the 
ottoman, facing the window]. 'The same to everybody. 

HIGGINS. Just so. 

uiza. Like father. 

HIGGINS [grinning, a Little taken down| Without accepting 
the comparison at all points, Eliza, it’s quite true that your 
father is not a snob, and that he will be quite at home in 
any station of life to which his eccentric destiny may call 
him. [Seriously] The great secret, Eliza, is not having bad 
manners or good manners or any other particular sort of 
manners, but having the same manner for all human souls: 
in short, behaving as if you were in Heaven, where there 
are no third-classcarriages, and one soul is as good as another. 

Liza, Amen. You are a born preacher. 

Hiccins [irritated] ‘The question is not whether I treat 
you rudely, but whether you ever heard me treat anyone 
else better. 

Liza [with sudden sincerity] I dont care how you treat me. 
I dont mind your swearing at me. I dont mind a black 
eye: Ive had one before this. But [standing up and facing 
him] 1 wont be passed over. 

Hiccins. Then get out of my way; for I wont stop for 
you. You talk about me as if I were a motor bus. 

L1zA. So you are a motor bus: all bounce and go, and no 
consideration for anyone. But I can do without you: dont 
think I cant. 

Hiccins. I know you can. I told you you could. 

Liza [wounded, getting away from him to the other side of 
the ottoman with her face to the hearth| 1 know you did, you 
brute. You wanted to get rid of me. 

HicciIns. Liar. 

uiza. Thank you. [Ste sits down with dignity]. 

HiccINs. You never asked yourself, I suppose, whether J 
could do without you. 


~ 


Act V Pygmalion | 8 


uiza [earnestly] Dont you try to get round me. Youll 
have to do without me. 

niccins [arrogant] I can do without anybody. I have 
my own soul: my own spark of divine fire. But [with 
sudden humility] I shall miss you, Eliza. [He sits down 
near her on the ottoman}. 1 have learnt something from your 
idiotic notions: I confess that humbly and gratefully. And 
I have grown accustomed to your voice and appearance. 
I like them, rather. 

Liza. Well, you have both of them on your gramophone 
and in your book of photographs. When you feel lonely 
without me, you can turn the machine on. It’s got no 
feelings to hurt. 

HicciIns. I cant turn your soul on. Leave me those 
feelings; and you can take away the voice and the face. 
They are not you. 

uiza. Oh, you are a devil. You can twist the heart in a 
girl as easy as some could twist her arms to hurt her. Mrs 
Pearce warned me. Time and again she has wanted to 
leave you; and you always got round her at the last 
minute. And you dont care a bit for her. And you dont 
care a bit for me. 

niccins. I care for life, for humanity; and you are a 
part of it that has come my way and been built into my 
house. What more can you or anyone ask? 

uiza. I wont care for anybody that doesnt care for 
me. | 

HIGGINS. Commercial principles, Eliza. Like [reproducing 
her Covent Garden pronunciation with professional exactness] 
s’yollin voylets [selling violets], isnt it? 

Liza. Dont sneer at me. It’s mean to sneer at me. 

Hiccins. I have never sneered in my life. Sneering 
doesnt become either the human face or the human soul. 
I am expressing my righteous contempt for Commercialism. 
I dont and wont trade in affection. You call me a brute 
because you couldnt buy a claim on me by fetching my 
slippers and finding my spectacles. You were a fool: I think 

G 


82 Pygmalion Act V 


a woman fetching a man’s slippers is a disgusting sight: did I 
ever fetch your slippers? I think a good deal more of you 
for throwing them in my face. No use slaving for me and 
then saying you want to be cared for: who cares for a slave? 
If you come back, come back for the sake of good fellow- 
ship; for youll get nothing else. Youve had a thousand 
times as much out of me as J have out of you; and if you 
dare to set up your little dog’s tricks of fetching and carry- 
ing slippers against my creation of a Duchess Eliza, I'll 
slam the door in your silly face. 

Liza. What did you do it for if you didnt care for me? 

HIGGINS [/eartily] Why, because it was my job. 

Liza. You never thought of the trouble it would make 
for me. 

HiGciINs. Would the world ever have been made if its 
maker had been afraid of making trouble? Making life 
means making trouble. Theres only one way of escaping 
trouble; and thats killing things. Cowards, you notice, 
are always shrieking to have troublesome people killed. 

uiza. I’m no preacher: I dont notice things like that. 
I notice that you dont notice me. 

HIGGINS [ jumping up and walking about intolerantly| Eliza: 
youre an idiot. I waste the treasures of my Miltonic mind 
by spreading them before you. Once for all, understand 
that I go my way and do my work without caring twopence 
what happens to either of us. I am not intimidated, like 
your father and your stepmother. So you can come back or 
go to the devil: which you please. 

Liza. What am I to come back for? 

HIGGINS [bouncing up on his knees on the ottoman and lean- 
ing over it to her| For the fun of it. Thats why I took you on. 

Liza [with averted face| And you may throw me out 
tomorrow if I dont do everything you want me to? 

HiccIns. Yes; and you may walk out tomorrow if I 
dont do everything you want me to. 

Liza, And live with my stepmother? 

Hiccins. Yes, or sell flowers. 





Act V Pygmalion 8 3 


uiza. Oh! if I only could go back to my flower 
basket! I should be independent of both you and father 
and all the world! Why did you take my independence 
from me? Why did I give it up? I’m a slave now, for all 
my fine clothes. 

Hiccins. Not a bit. Pll adopt you as my daughter and 
settle money on you if you like. Or would you rather 
marry Pickering? 

Liza [looking fiercely round at him| 1 wouldnt marry you 
if you asked me; and youre nearer my age than what 
he is. 

Hiccins [gezt/y] ‘Than he is: not ‘‘than what he is.” 

Liza [losing fer temper and rising) Vll talk as [ like. 
Youre not my teacher now. 

Hiccins [reflectively| I dont suppose Pickering would, 
though. Hes as confirmed an old bachelor as I am. 

Liza. Thats not what I want; and dont you think it. 
Ive always had chaps enough wanting me that way. Freddy 
Hill writes to me twice and three times a day, sheets and 
sheets. 

HIGGINS [disagreeably surprised| Damn his impudence! 
[He recoils and finds himself sitting on his heels). 

Liza. He has a right to if he likes, poor lad. And he 
does love me. 

HIGcGINs [getting aff the ottoman) You have no right to 
encourage him. 

Liza. Every gir] has a right to be loved. 

HicciINs. What! By fools like that? 

uiza. Freddy’s not a fool. And if he’s weak and poor and 
wants me, may be he’d make me happier than my betters 
that bully me and dont want me. 

Higgins. Can he make anything of you? That’s the 
point. 

uiza. Perhaps I could make something of him. But I 
never thought of us making anything of one another; and 
you never think of anything else. I only want to be 
natural. 


8 4. Pygmalion Act V 


HiccIns. In short, you want me to be as infatuated about 
you as Freddy? Is that it? 

Liza. No I dont. Thats not the sort of feeling I want 
from you. And dont you be too sure of yourself or of me. 
I could have been a bad girl if Pd liked. Ive seen more 
of some things than you, for all your learning. Gurls like 
me can drag gentlemen down to make love to them easy 
enough. And they wish each other dead the next minute. 

Hiccins. Of course they do. Then what in thunder are 
we quarrelling about? 

Liza [much troubled) I want a little kindness. I know 
I’m acommon ignorant girl, and you a book-learned gentle- 
man; but I’m not dirt under your feet. What I done 
[correcting herself| what I did was not for the dresses and 
the taxis: I did it because we were pleasant together and 
I come—came—to care for you; not to want you to make 
love to me, and not forgetting the difference between us, 
but more friendly like. 

Hiccins. Well, of course. Thats just how I feel. And 
how Pickering feels. Eliza: youre a fool. 

Liza. Thats not a proper answer to give me [she sinks 
on the chair at the writing-table in tears}. 

Hiccins. It’s all youll get until you stop being a common 
idiot. If youre going to be a lady, youll have to give up 
feeling neglected if the men you know dont spend half their 
time snivelling over you and the other half giving you black 
eyes. If you cant stand the coldness of my sort of life, and 
the strain of it, go back to the gutter. Work til you are 
more a brute than a human being; and then cuddle and 
squabble and drink til you fall asleep. Oh, it’s a fine life, 
the life of the gutter. It’s real: it’s warm: it’s violent: 
you can feel it through the thickest skin: you can taste 
it and smell it without any training or any work. Not 
like Science and Literature and Classical Music and 
Philosophy and Art. You find me cold, unfeeling, selfish, 
dont you? Very well: be off with you to the sort of 
people you like. Marry some sentimental hog or other with 





Act V Pygmalion 8 5 


lots of money, and a thick pair of lips to kiss you with 
and a thick pair of boots to kick you with. If you cant 
appreciate what youve got, youd better get what you can 
appreciate. 

Liza [desperate] Oh, you are a cruel tyrant. I cant talk 
to you: you turn everything against me: I’m always in the 
wrong. But you know very well all the time that youre 
nothing buta bully. You know I cant go back to the gutter, 
as you call it, and that I have no real friends in the world 
but you and the Colonel. You know well I couldnt bear 
to live with a low common man after you two ; and its 
wicked and cruel of you to insult me by pretending 
I could. You think I must go back to Wimpole Street 
because I have nowhere else to go but father’s. But dont 
you be too sure that you have me under your feet to be 
trampled on and talked down. I'll marry Freddy, I will, as 
soon as hes able to support me. 

HIGGINS [sitting down beside her| Rubbish! you shall marry 
an ambassador. You shall marry the Governor-General of 
India or the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, or somebody who 
wants a deputy-queen. I’m not going to have my master- 
piece thrown away on Freddy. 

Liza. You think I like you to say that. But I havnt 
forgot what you said a minute ago; and I wont be coaxed 
round as if I was a baby or a puppy. If I cant have kind- 
ness, I’ll have independence. 

Hiccins. Independence? Thats middle class blasphemy. 
We are all dependent on one another, every soul of us on 
earth. 

Liza [rising determinedly| Vl let you see whether I’m 
dependent on you. If you can preach, I can teach. I'll go 
and be a teacher. 

HiccIns. Whatl] you teach, in heaven’s name? 

uiza. What you taught me. I'll teach phonetics. 

HiccIns. Ha! ha! ha! 

uiza. I’ll offer myself as an assistant to Professor 
Nepean. 


86 Pygmalion Act V 


Hiccins [rising in a fury] What! That impostor! that 
humbug! that toadying ignoramus! Teach him my 
methods! my discoveries! You take one step in his 
direction and I’ll wring your neck. [He lays hands on her]. 
Do you hear? 

Liza [defiantly non-resistant| Wring away. What do I 
care? I knew youd strike me some day. [He “ets Ler go, 
stamping with rage at having forgotten himself, and recoils 
so hastily that he stumbles back into his seat on the ottoman). 
Aha! Now I know how to deal with you. What a fool I 
was not to think of it before! You cant take away the 
knowledge you gave me. You said I had a finer ear than 
you. And I can be civil and kind to people, which is more 
than you can. Aha! Thats done you, Henry Higgins, it 
has. Now I dont care that [swapping her fingers] for your 
bullying and your big talk. I'll advertize it in the papers 
that your duchess is only a flower girl that you taught, and 
that she’ll teach anybody to be a duchess just the same 
in six months for a thousand guineas. Oh, when I think 
of myself crawling under your feet and being trampled 
on and called names, when all the time I had only to 
lift up my finger to be as good as you, I could just kick 
myself. 

HiccINs [wondering at her) You damned impudent slut, 
you! But it’s better than snivelling; better than fetching 
slippers and finding spectacles, isnt it? [Rising] By George, 
Eliza, I said I’d make a woman of you; and I have. | 
like you like this. 

Liza. Yes: you turn round and make up to me now 
that I’m not afraid of you, and can do without you. 

Hiccins. Of course I do, you little fool. Five minutes 
ago you were like a millstone round my neck. Now youre 
a tower of strength: a consort battleship. You and I and 
Pickering will be three old bachelors together instead of 
only two men and a silly girl. 

Mrs Higgins returns, dressed for the wedding. Eliza in- 
stantly becomes cool and elegant. 





Act V Pygmalion 87 

MRS HIGGINS. The carriage 1s waiting, Eliza. Are you 
ready? 

Liza. Quite. Is the Professor coming? 

MRS HIGGINS. Certainly not. He cant behave himself in 
church. He makes remarks out loud all the time on the 
clergyman’s pronunciation. 

uiza. ‘Then I shall not see you again, Professor. Good- 
bye. [She goes to the door]. 

MRS. HIGGINS [coming to Higgins] Good-bye, dear. 

HIGGINS. Good-bye, mother. [He is about to kiss her, when 
he recollects something|. Oh, by the way, Eliza, order a 
ham and a Stilton cheese, will you. And buy me a pair 
of reindeer gloves, number eights, and a tie to match that 
new suit of mine, at Eale and Binman’s. You can choose 
the color. [His cheerful careless vigorous voice shews that he 
is incorrigible}. 

Liza [disdainfully| Buy them yourself. [She sevceps out]. 

MRs HIGGINS. I’m afraid youve spoiled that girl, Henry. 
But never mind, dear: I’1] buy you the tie and gloves, 

HIGGINS [saznily] Oh, dont bother. She'll buy em all 
right enough. Good-bye. 

They kiss. Mrs Higgins runs out. Higgins, left alone, rattles 
his cash in his pocket; chuckles; and disports himself in a highly 
self-satisfied manner. 


Printed by R. & R. Clark, Limirep, Edinéurgh. 








MRSS : WFR 4 se 
mi ve ALL A PR sea Bas 
eater Sete REN aie 
PO Sale: ra Gt 4A a 
PN A eh oe 


re hy ese 


: ¢ 3 
Wis a 
st RII. ty 


arm 


’ : 03 ee , Mert eke 
Beep 


Ls eS 
Sah, 
is . 
~ ye 


5 85 3 t at. 
ETS cant ao hp aie Ie hs 
PO rae He WQS AGH 8 oS 

et at atep dare int, * 
Ser Re i LO bes A 
ih SLO. alg tM. oyees eh 
eh cee Pa ae ee ng ee 


-¢ 


a, 
ue 
ee dat tt S < as abel 


ey A frost % 2 

ea ea ha oes yb * . 

NET z AG. 2 Fie Recto t @ 
ET > 44.8 + Rene yo fai DAS et 


€ Bar 





