


So a ere =< 
Frammae-tial 2 SP MEY Bm 
Saal 


ee 
Ca - 


~ ~— ee eee 4 » 2 
eae SR ee 


+. Sects ll = “arena ~ 1 e0 a eo. + ww, ey 
ES ~- ree vot es ald a a et t - omees wo 
og = . ral eR ER F — 
“ i pat eae weer ea eter eciiiera sees on ee are nlp mea er ¥ 
Se aaah date Rah oD - ieee dubeata:nadiyaiinaliin 10 ene ae ie ee bo am " 











THE PERFECT 
WAGNERITE 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
In 2007 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/perfectwagneriteOOshawuoft 


The Perfect Wagnerite: A 
Commentary on the Nib- 
lung’s Ring. By Bernard 
Shaw. 


Constable and Company 
Ltd.London: 1912. 


First Edition, December 1898. Second Edition, January 1902 
Reprinted April 1906, February 1908, 1910, 1911 


1gi2 


Preface to the Second Edition 


THE preparation of a Second Edition of this booklet 
is quite the most unexpected literary task that has 
ever been set me. When it first appeared I was 
ungrateful enough to remonstrate with its publisher 
for printing, as I thought, more copies than the most 
sanguine Wagnerite could ever hope to sell. But 
the result proved that exactly one person buys a copy 
on every day in the year, including Sundays ; and so, 
in the process of the suns, a reprint has become 
necessary. 

Save a few verbal slips of no importance, I have 
found nothing to alter in this edition. As usual, the 
only protests the book has elicited are protests, not 
against the opinions it expresses, but against the facts 
it records. There are people who cannot bear to be 
told that their hero was associated with a famous 
Anarchist in a rebellion; that he was proclaimed as 
“‘wanted ” by the police ; that he wrote revolutionary 
pamphlets; and that his picture of Niblunghome 
under the reign of Alberic is a poetic vision of 
unregulated industrial capitalism as 1t was made 
known in Germany in the middle of the nineteenth 


vi The Perfect Wagnerite 


century by Engels’s Condition of the Laboring 
Classes in England. They frantically deny these 
facts, and then declare that I have connected them 
with Wagner in a paroxysm of senseless perversity. 
I am sorry I have hurt them ; and I appeal to charit- 
able publishers to bring out a new life of Wagner, 
which shall describe him as a court musician of un- 
questioned fashion and orthodoxy, and a pillar of the 
most exclusive Dresden circles. Such a work, would, 
I believe, have a large sale, and be read with satisfac- 
tion and reassurance by many lovers of Wagner’s 
music. 

As to my much demurred-to relegation of Night 
Falls on the Gods to the category of grand opera, I 
have nothing to add or withdraw. Such a classifica- 
tion is to me as much a matter of fact as the Dresden 
rising or the police proclamation; but I shall not 
pretend that it is a matter of such fact as everybody’s 
judgment can grapple with. People who prefer 
grand opera to serious music-drama naturally resent 
my placing a very grand opera below a very serious 
music-drama. The ordinary lover of Shakespeare 
would equally demur to my placing his popular 
catchpenny plays, of which As You Like It is an 
avowed type, below true Shakespearean plays like 
Measure for Measure. I cannot help that. Popular 
dramas and operas may have overwhelming merits as 
enchanting make-believes; but a poet’s sincerest 
vision of the world must always take precedence of 
his prettiest fool’s paradise. 

As many English Wagnerites seem to be still 


Preface to the Second Edition vii 


under the impression that Wagner composed Rienzi 
in his youth, ‘Tannhauser and Lohengrin in his middle 
age, and The Ring in his later years, may I again 
remind them that The Ring was the result of a 
political convulsion which occurred when Wagner 
was only thirty-six, and that the poem was completed 
when he was forty, with thirty more years of work 
before him? It is as much a first essay in political 
philosophy as Die Feen is a first essay 1n romantic 
opera. ‘The attempt to recover its spirit twenty years 
later, when the music of Night Falls on The Gods 
was added, was an attempt to revive the barricades 
of Dresden in the Temple of the Grail. Only those 
who have never had any political enthusiasms to 
survive can believe that such an attempt could 


succeed. G. B.S. 


Loxovon, 1901. 





Preface to the First Edition 


Tuis book is a commentary on The Ring of the 
Niblungs, Wagner’s chief work. I offer it to those 
enthusiastic admirers of Wagner who are unable to 
follow his ideas, and do not in the least understand 
the dilemma of Wotan, though they are filled with 
indignation at the irreverence of the Philistines who 
frankly avow that they find the remarks of the god 
too often tedious and nonsensical. Now to be devoted 
to Wagner merely as a dog is devoted to his master, 
sharing a few elementary ideas, appetites and emotions 
with him, and, for the rest, reverencing his superiority 
without understanding it, is no true Wagnerism. Yet 
nothing better is possible without a stock of ideas 
common to master and disciple. Unfortunately, the 
ideas of the revolutionary Wagner of 1848 are taught 
neither by the education nor the experience of Eng- 
lish and American gentleman-amateurs, who are 
almost always political mugwumps, and hardly ever 
associate with revolutionists. The earlier attempts to 
translate his numerous pamphlets and essays into 
English, resulted in ludicrous mixtures of pure non- 
sense with the absurdest distortions of his ideas into 


Xx Preface to the First Edition 


the ideas of the translators. We now have a translation 
which is a masterpiece of interpretation and an eminent 
addition to our literature; but that is not because its 
author, Mr. Ashton Ellis, knows the German diction- 
ary better than his predecessors. He is simply in pos- 
session of Wagner’s ideas, which were to them incon- 
ceivable. 

All I pretend to do in this book is to impart the 
ideas which are most likely to be lacking in the con- 
ventional Englishman’s equipment. J came by them 
myself much as Wagner did, having learnt more about 
music than about anything else in my youth, and 
sown my political wild oats subsequently in the revolu- 
tionary school. This combination is not common in 
England ; and as I seem, so far, to be the only publicly 
articulate result of it, I venture to add my commentary 
to what has already been written by musicians who 
are no revolutionists, and revolutionists who are no 
musicians. G. B. S. 


Preliminary Encouragements 
The Ring of the Niblungs . 
The Rhine Gold 

Wagner as Revolutionist 
The Valkyries 

Siegfried 

Siegfried as Protestant . 
Night Falls on The Gods 
Wagner’s own Explanation . 
The Music of the Ring 

The Old and the New Music 
The Nineteenth Century 
The Music of the Future 
Bayreuth 


27 
35 
47 
64 
80 
99 


108 


118 
124 
131 
I 33 





THE PERFECT WAGNERITE 


PRELIMINARY ENCOURAGEMENTS 


A Frew of these will be welcome to the ordinary 
citizen visiting the theatre to satisfy his curiosity, or 
his desire to be in the fashion, by witnessing a repre- 
sentation of Richard Wagner’s famous Ring of the 
Niblungs. 

First, The Ring, with all its gods and giants and 
dwarfs, its water-maidens and Valkyries, its wishing- 
cap, magic ring, enchanted sword, and miraculous 
treasure, is a drama of today, and not of a remote 
and fabulous antiquity. It could not have been written 
before the second half of the nineteenth century, be- 
cause it deals with events which were only then con- 
summating themselves. Unless the spectator recognizes 
in it an image of the life he is himself fighting his 
way through, it must needs appear to him a monstrous 
development of the Christmas pantomimes, spun out 
here and there into intolerable lengths of dull con- 
versation by the principal baritone. Fortunately, even 
from this point of view, The Ring is full of extra- 

B 


2 The Perfect Wagnerite 


ordinarily attractive episodes, both orchestral and 
dramatic. The nature music alone — music of river 
and rainbow, fire and forest — 1s enough to bribe 
people with any love of the country in them to en- 
dure the passages of political philosophy in the sure 
hope of a prettier page to come. Everybody, too, can 
enjoy the love music, the hammer and anvil music, 
the clumping of the giants, the tune of the young 
woodsman’s horn, the trilling of the bird, the dragon 
music and nightmare music and thunder and lightning 
music, the profusion of simple melody, the sensuous 
charm of the orchestration : in short, the vast extent of 
common ground between The Ring and the ordinary 
music we use for play and pleasure. Hence it is that 
the four separate music-plays of which it is built 
have become popular throughout Europe as operas. 
We shall presently see that one of them, Night Falls 
on the Gods, actually is an opera. 

It is generally understood, however, that there 1s 
an inner ring of superior persons to whom the whole 
work has a most urgent and searching philosophic 
and social significance. I profess to be such a superior 
person ; and I write this pamphlet for the assistance 
of those who wish to be introduced to the work on 
equal terms with that inner circle of adepts. 

My second encouragement is addressed to modest 
citizens who may suppose themselves to be disqualified 
from enjoying The Ring by their technical ignorance 
of music. They may dismiss all such misgivings 
speedily and confidently. If the sound of music has 
any power to move them, they will find that Wagner 


Preliminary Encouragements 3 


exacts nothing further. There is not a single bar of 
“classical music”’ in The Ring — not a note in it that 
has any other point than the single direct point of 
giving musical expression to the drama. In classical 
music there are, as the analytical programs tell us, 
first subjects and second subjects, free fantasias, 
recapitulations, and codas; there are fugues, with 
counter-subjects, strettos, and pedal points ; there are 
passacaglias on ground basses, canons ad hypodia- 
pente, and other ingenuities, which have, after all, 
stood or fallen by their prettiness as much as the 
simplest folk-tune. Wagner is never driving at any- 
thing of this sort any more than Shakespear in his 
plays is driving at such ingenuities of verse-making 
as sonnets, triolets, and the like. And this is why he 
is so easy for the natural musician who has had no 
academic teaching. The professors, when Wagner’s 
music is played to them, exclaim at once “ What is 
this? Is it aria, or recitative? Is there no cabaletta to 
it — not even a full close ? Why was that discord not 
prepared ; and why does he not resolve it correctly ? 
How dare he indulge in those scandalous and illicit 
transitions into a key that has not one note in common 
with the key he has just left? Listen to those false 
relations! What does he want with six drums and 
eight horns when Mozart worked miracles with two 
of each? The man is no musician.” The layman 
neither knows nor cares about any of these things. 
If Wagner were to turn aside from his straight- 
forward dramatic purpose to propitiate the professors 
with correct exercises in sonata form, his music would 


4 The Perfect Wagnerite 


at once become unintelligible to the unsophisticated 
spectator, upon whom the familiar and dreaded “class- 
ical’’ sensation would descend like the influenza. 
Nothing of the kind need be dreaded. The unskilled, 
untaught musician may approach Wagner boldly ; for 
there is no possibility of a misunderstanding between 
them: the Ring music is perfectly single and simple. 
It is the adept musician of the old school who has 
everything to unlearn ; and him I leave, unpitied, to 
his fate. 


THE RING OF THE NIBLUNGS 


Tue Ring consists of four plays, intended to be per- 
formed on four successive evenings, entitled The 
Rhine Gold (a prologue to the other three), The 
Valkyries, Siegfried, and Night Falls on The Gods; or, 
in the original German, Das Rheingold, Die Walkiire, 
pepiried, and Die Gotterdimmerung. 


THE RHINE GOLD 


Let me assume for a moment that you are a young 
and good-looking woman. Try to imagine yourself 
in that character at Klondyke five years ago. The 
place is teeming with gold. If you are content to 
leave the gold alone, as the wise leave flowers with- 
out plucking them, enjoying with perfect naiveté its 
color and glitter and preciousness, no human being 
will ever be the worse for your knowledge of it; and 
whilst you remain in that frame of mind the golden 
age will endure. 

Now suppose a man comes along : a man who has 
no sense of the golden age, nor any power of living 
in the present: a man with common desires, cupid- 


6 The Perfect Wagnerite 


ities, ambitions, just like most of the men you know. 
Suppose you reveal to that man the fact that if he 
will only pluck this gold up, and turn it into money, 
millions of men, driven by the invisible whip of 
hunger, will toil underground and overground night 
and day to pile up more and more gold for him until 
he is master of the world! You will find that the 
prospect will not tempt him so much as you might 
imagine, because it involves some distasteful trouble 
to himself to start with, and because there is some- 
thing else within his reach involving no distasteful 
toil, which he desires more passionately; and that is 
yourself. So long as he is preoccupied with love of you, 
the gold, and all that it implies, will escape him: the 
golden age will endure. Not until he forswears love 
will he stretch out his hand to the gold, and found 
the Plutonic empire for himself. But the choice be- 
tween love and gold may not rest altogether with him. 
He may be an ugly, ungracious, unamiable person, 
whose affections may seem merely ludicrous and de- 
spicable to you. In that case, you may repulse him, 
and most bitterly humiliate and disappoint him. 
What is left to him then but to curse the love he can 
never win, and turn remorselessly to the gold ? With 
that, he will make short work of your golden age, 
and leave you lamenting its lost thoughtlessness and 
sweetness, 

In due time the gold of Klondyke will find its way 
to the great cities of the world. But the old dilemma 
will keep continually reproducing itself. The man who 
will turn his back on love, and upon all the fruitful, 


Scene I The Rhine Gold a, 


creative, life-pursuing activities into which the loftiest 
human energy can develop it, and will set himself 
single-heartedly to gather gold in an exultant dream 
of wielding its Plutonic powers, will find the treasure 
yielding quickly to his touch. But few men will make 
this sacrifice voluntarily. Not until the Plutonic power 
is so strongly set up that the higher human impulses 
are suppressed as rebellious, and even the mere appe- 
tites are denied, starved, and insulted when they can- 
not purchase their satisfaction with gold, are the ener- 
getic spirits driven to build their lives upon riches. 
How inevitable that course has become to us is plain 
enough to those who have the power of understand- 
ing what they see as they look at the plutocratic 
societies of our modern capitals. 


First Scene 


Here, then, is the subject of the first scene of The 
Rhine Gold. As you sit waiting for the curtain to 
rise, you suddenly catch the booming ground-tone of 
a mighty river. It becomes plainer, clearer: you get 
nearer to the surface, and catch the green light and 
the flights of bubbles. Then the curtain goes up and 
you see what you heard —the depths of the Rhine, 
with three strange fairy fishes, half water-maidens, 
singing and enjoying themselves exuberantly. They 
are not singing barcarolles or ballads about the 
Lorely and her fated lovers, but simply trolling any 
nonsense that comes into their heads in time to the 
dancing of the water and the rhythm of their swim- 


8 The Perfect Wagnerite — Scene1 


ming. It is the golden age ; and the attraction of this 
spot for the Rhine maidens is a lump of the Rhine 
gold, which they value, in an entirely uncommercial 
way, for its bodily beauty and splendor. Just at present 
it is eclipsed, because the sun is not striking down 
through the water. 

Presently there comes a poor devil of a dwarf 
stealing along the slippery rocks of the river bed, a 
creature with energy enough to make him strong of 
body and fierce of passion, but with a brutish narrow- 
ness of intelligence and selfishness of imagination : too 
stupid to see that his own welfare can only be com- 
passed as part of the welfare of the world, too full of 
brute force not to grab vigorously at his own gain. 
Such dwarfs are quite common in London. He comes 
now with a fruitful impulse in him, in search of what 
he lacks in himself, beauty, lightness of heart, im- 
agination, music. The Rhine maidens, representing 
all these to him, fill him with hope and longing ; and 
he never considers that he has nothing to offer that 
they could possibly desire, being by natural limitation 
incapable of seeing anything from anyone else’s point 
of view. With perfect simplicity, he offers himself 
as a sweetheart to them. But they are thoughtless, 
elemental, only half real things, much like modern 
young ladies. That the poor dwarf is repulsive to 
their sense of physical beauty and their romantic con- 
ception of heroism, that he is ugly and awkward, 
greedy and ridiculous, disposes for them of his claim 
to live and love. They mock him atrociously, pre- 
tending to fall in love with him at first sight,.and 


Scene I The Rhine Gold 9 


then slipping away and making game of him, heaping 
ridicule and disgust on the poor wretch until he 1s 
beside himself with mortification and rage. They for- 
get him when the water begins to glitter in the sun, 
and the gold to reflect its glory. They break into 
ecstatic worship of their treasure ; and though they 
know the parable of Klondyke quite well, they have 
no fear that the gold will be wrenched away by the 
dwarf, since it will yield to no one who has not for- 
sworn love for it, and it is in pursuit of love that 
hie has come to them. They forget that they have 
poisoned that desire in him by their mockery and 
denial of it, and that he now knows that life will give 
him nothing that he cannot wrest from it by the 
Plutonic power. It is just as if some poor, rough, 
vulgar, coarse fellow were to offer to take his part in 
aristocratic society, and be snubbed into the know- 
ledge that only as a millionaire could he ever hope to 
bring that society to his feet and buy himself a 
beautiful and refined wife. His choice is forced on 
him. He forswears love as thousands of us forswear it 
every day; and in a moment the gold is in his grasp, 
and he disappears in the depths, leaving the water- 
fairies vainly screaming “‘Stop thief !”’ whilst the river 
seems to plunge into darkness and sink from us as we 
rise to the cloud regions above. 

And now, what forces are there in the world to 
resist Alberic, our dwarf, in his new character of sworn 
plutocrat ? He is soon at work wielding the power of 
the gold. For his gain, hordes of his fellow-creatures 
are thenceforth condemned to slave miserably, over- 


10 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene! 


ground and underground, lashed to their work by the 
invisible whip of starvation. They never see him, any 
more than the victims of our “dangerous trades” ever 
see the shareholders whose power 1s nevertheless every- 
where, driving them to destruction. The very wealth 
they create with their labor becomes an additional 
force to impoverish them ; for as fast as they make 
it it slips from their hands into the hands of their 
master, and makes him mightier than ever. You can 
see the process for yourself in every civilized country 
today, where millions of people toil in want and 
disease to heap up more wealth for our Alberics, lay- 
ing up nothing for themselves, except sometimes 
horrible and agonizing disease and the certainty of 
premature death. All this part of the story is fright- 
fully real, frightfully present, frightfully modern; and 
its effects on our social life are so ghastly and ruinous 
that we no longer know enough of happiness to be 
discomposed by it. It is only the poet, with his vision of 
what life might be, to whom these things are unen- 
durable. If we were a race of poets we would make 
an end of them before the end of this miserable 
century. Being a race of moral dwarfs instead, we 
think them highly respectable, comfortable and proper, 
and allow them to breed and multiply their evil in 
all directions. If there were no higher power in the 
world to work against Alberic, the end of it would 
be utter destruction. 

Such a force there is, however; and it 1s called God- 
head. The mysterious thing we call life organizes itself 
into all living shapes, bird, beast, beetle and fish, rising 


Scene I The Rhine Gold II 


to the human marvel in cunning dwarfs and in labori- 
ous muscular giants, capable, these last, of enduring 
toil, willing to buy love and life, not with suicidal curses 
and renunciations, but with patient manual drudgery 
in the service of higher powers. And these higher 
powers are called into existence by the same self- 
organization of life still more wonderfully into rare 
persons who may by comparison be called gods, 
creatures capable of thought, whose aims extend far 
beyond the satisfaction of their bodily appetites and 
personal affections, since they perceive that it is only 
by the establishment of a social order founded on 
common bonds of moral faith that the world can rise 
from mere savagery. But how is this order to be set 
_ up by Godhead in a world of stupid giants, since 
these thoughtless ones pursue only their narrower per- 
sonal ends and can by no means understand the aims 
of a god ? Godhead, face to face with Stupidity, must 
compromise. Unable to enforce on the world the pure 
law of thought, it must resort to a mechanical law of 
commandments to be-enforced by brute punishments 
and the destruction of the disobedient. And however 
carefully these laws are framed to represent the highest 
thoughts of the framers at the moment of their pro- 
mulgation, before a day has elapsed that thought has 
grown and widened by the ceaseless evolution of 
life; and lo! yesterday’s law already fallen out with 
today’s thought. Yet if the high givers of that law 
themselves set the example of breaking it before it is 
a week old, they destroy all its authority with their 
subjects, and so break the weapon they have forged to 


12 The Perfect Wagnerite —Scenel 


rule them for their own good. They must therefore 
maintain at all costs the sanctity of the law, even when 
it has ceased to represent their thought; so that at 
last they get entangled in a network of ordinances 
which they no longer believe in, and yet have made 
so sacred by custom and so terrible by punishment, 
that they cannot themselves escape from them. Thus 
Godhead’s resort to law finally costs it half its integrity 
— as if a spiritual king, to gain temporal power, had 
plucked out one of his eyes — and it finally begins 
secretly to long for the advent of some power higher 
than itself which will destroy its artificial empire of 
law, and establish a true republic of free thought. 
This is by no means the only difficulty in the do- 
minion of Law. The brute force for its execution must 
be purchased ; and the mass of its subjects must be 
persuaded to respect the authority which employs this 
force. But how is such respect to be implanted in them 
if they are unable to comprehend the thought of the 
lawgiver ? Clearly, only by associating the legislative 
power with such displays of splendor and majesty as 
will impress their senses and awe their imaginations. 
The god turned lawgiver, in short, must be crowned 
Pontiff and King. Since he cannot be known to the 
common folk as their superior in wisdom, he must be 
known to them as their superior in riches, as the 
dweller in castles, the wearer of gold and purple, the 
eater of mighty feasts, the commander of armies, and 
the wielder of powers of life and death, of salvation 
and damnation after death. Something may be done in 
this way without corruption whilst the golden age 


Scene II The Rhine Gold 13 


still endures. Your gods may not prevail with the 
dwarfs; but they may go to these honest giants who 
will give a day’s work for a day’s pay, and induce 
them to build for Godhead a mighty fortress, complete 
with hall and chapel, tower and bell, for the sake of 
the homesteads that will grow up in security round 
that church-castle. This only, however, whilst the 
golden age lasts. The moment the Plutonic power is 
let loose, and the loveless Alberic comes into the field 
with his corrupting millions, the gods are face to face 
with destruction; since Alberic, able with invisible 
hunger-whip to force the labor of the dwarfs and to 
buy the services of the giants, can outshine all the 
temporal shows and splendors of the golden age, and 
make himself master of the world, unless the gods, 
with their bigger brains, can capture his gold. This, 
the dilemma of the Church today, is the situation 
created by the exploit of Alberic in the depths of the 
Rhine. 


Second Scene 


From the bed of the river we rise into cloudy re- 
gions, and finally come out into the clear in a meadow, 
where Wotan, the god of gods, and his consort Fricka 
lie sleeping. Wotan, you will observe, has lost one eye ; 
and you will presently learn that he plucked it out 
voluntarily as the price to be paid for his alliance with 
Fricka, who in return has brought to him as her dowry 
all the powers of Law. The meadow 1s on the brink 
of a ravine, beyond which, towering on distant heights, 
stands Godhome, a mighty castle, newly built as a 


14 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene II 


house of state for the one-eyed god and his all-ruling 
wife. Wotan has not yet seen this castle except in his 
dreams: two giants have just built it for him whilst 
he slept; and the reality is before him for the first 
time when Fricka wakes him. In that majestic burg he 
is to rule with her and through her over the humble 
giants, who have eyes to gape at the glorious castles 
their own hands have built from his design, but no 
brains to design castles for themselves, or to compre- 
hend divinity. As a god, he is to be great, secure, and 
mighty ; but he is also to be passionless, affectionless, 
wholly impartial; for Godhead, if it is to live with 
Law, must have no weaknesses, no respect for persons. 
All such sweet littlenesses must be left to the humble 
stupid giants to make their toil sweet to them; and 
the god must, after all, pay for Olympian power 
the same price the dwarf has paid for Plutonic 
power. 

Wotan has forgotten this in his dreams of great- 
ness. Not so Fricka. What she is thinking of is this 
price that Wotan has consented to pay, in token 
whereof he has promised this day to hand over to the 
giants Fricka’s sister, the goddess Freia, with her 
golden love-apples. When Fricka reproaches Wotan 
with having selfishly forgotten this, she finds that he, 
like herself, is not prepared to go through with his 
bargain, and that he is trusting to another great 
world-force, the Lie (a European Power, as Lassalle 
said), to help him to trick the giants out of their re- 
ward. But this force does not dwell in Wotan himself, 
but in another, a god over whom he has triumphed, 





Scene II The Rhine Gold I5 


one Loki, the god of Intellect, Argument, Imagina- 
tion, Illusion, and Reason. Loki has promised to de- 
liver him from his contract, and to cheat the giants 
for him; but he has not arrived to keep his word: 
indeed, as Fricka bitterly points out, why should not 
the Lie fail Wotan, since such failure is the very 
essence of him ? 

The giants come soon enough; and Freia flies to 
Wotan for protection against them. Their purposes are 
quite honest ; and they have no doubt of the god’s faith. 
There stands their part of the contract fulfilled, stone on 
stone, port and pinnacle all faithfully finished from 
Wotan’s design by their mighty labor. They have come 
undoubtingly for their agreed wage. Then there hap- 
pens what is to them an incredible, inconceivable thing. 
The god begins to shuffle. There are no moments in 
life more tragic than those in which the humble com- 
mon man, the manual worker, leaving with implicit 
trust all high affairs to his betters, and reverencing 
them wholly as worthy of that trust, even to the extent 
of accepting as his rightful function the saving of 
them from all roughening and coarsening drudgeries, 
first discovers that they are corrupt, greedy, unjust 
and treacherous. Theshock drives a ray of prophetic 
light into one giant’s mind, and gives him a moment- 
ary eloquence. In that moment he rises above his 
stupid gianthood, and earnestly warns the Son of 
Light that all his power and eminence of priesthood, 
godhdod, and kingship must stand or fall with the 
unbearable cold greatness of the incorruptible law- 
giver. But Wotan, whose assumed character of law- 


16 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene Il 


giver is altogether false to his real passionate nature, 
despises the rebuke; and the giant’s ray of insight is 
lost in the murk of his virtuous indignation. 

In the midst of the wrangle, Loki comes at last, 
excusing himself for being late on the ground that 
he has been detained by a matter of importance which 
he has promised to lay before Wotan. When pressed 
to give his mind to the business immediately in hand, 
and to extricate Wotan from his dilemma, he has 
nothing to say except that the giants are evidently 
altogether in the right. The castle has been duly 
built: he has tried every stone of it, and found the 
work firstrate: there is nothing to be done but pay 
the price agreed upon by handing over Freia to the 
giants. The gods are furious ; and Wotan passionately 
declares that he only consented to the bargain on 
Loki’s promise to find a way for him out of it. But 
Loki says no: he has promised to find a way out 
if any such way exist, but not to make a way if 
there is no way. He has wandered over the whole 
earth in search of some treasure great enough to buy 
Freia back from the giants; but in all the world he 
has found nothing for which Man will give up Woman. 
And this, by the way, reminds him of the matter he 
had promised to lay before Wotan. The Rhine maidens 
have complained to him of Alberic’s theft of their 
gold; and he mentions it as a curious exception to 
his universal law of the unpurchasable preciousness 
of love, that this gold-robber has forsworn love for 
the sake of the fabulous riches of the Plutonic empire 
and the mastery of the world through its power. 


Scene II The Rhine Gold 17 


No sooner is the tale told than the giants stoop 
lower than the dwarf. Alberic forswore love only 
when it was denied to him and made the instrument 
for cruelly murdering his self-respect. But the giants, 
with love within their reach, with Freia and her golden 
apples in their hands, offer to give her up for the 
treasure of Alberic. Observe, it is the treasure alone 
that they desire. They have no fierce dreams of 
dominion over their superiors, or of moulding 
the world to any conceptions of their own. They 
are neither clever nor ambitious: they simply covet 
money. Alberic’s gold: that is their demand, or 
else Freia, as agreed upon, whom they now carry 
off as hostage, leaving Wotan to consider their 
ultimatum. 

Freia gone, the gods begin to wither and age: her 
golden apples, which they so lightly bargained away, 
they now find to be a matter of life and death to 
them; for not even the gods can live on Law and 
Godhead alone, be their.castles ever so splendid. Loki 
alone is unaffected: the Lie, with all its cunning 
wonders, its glistenings and shiftings and mirages, is 
a mere appearance: it has no body and needs no food. 
What is Wotan to do? Loki sees the answer clearly 
enough : he must bluntly rob Alberic. There is nothing 
to prevent him except moral scruple; for Alberic, 
after all, is a poor, dim, dwarfed, credulous creature 
whom a god can outsee and a lie can outwit. Down, 
then, Wotan and Loki plunge into the mine where 
Alberic’s slaves are piling up wealth for him under 

_ the invisible whip. 
c 


18 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene III 


Third Scene 


This gloomy place need not be a mine: it might 
just as well be a match-factory, with yellow phos- 
phorus, phossy jaw, a large dividend, and plenty of 
clergymen shareholders. Or it might be a whitelead 
factory, or a chemical works, or a pottery, or a rail- 
way shunting yard, or a tailoring shop, or a little gin- 
sodden laundry, or a bakehouse, or a big shop, or any 
other of the places where human life and welfare are 
daily sacrificed in order that some greedy foolish 
creature may be able to hymn exultantly to his Plutonic 
idol : 

Thou mak’st me eat whilst others starve, 
And sing while others do lament: 


Such unto me Thy blessings are, 
As if I were Thine only care. 


In the mine, which resounds with the clinking 
anvils of the dwarfs toiling miserably to heap up 
treasure for their master, Alberic has set his brother 
Mime — more familiarly, Mimmy — to make him a 
helmet. Mimmy dimly sees that there is some magic 
in this helmet, and tries to keep it ; but Alberic wrests 
it from him, and shows him, to his cost, that it is the 
veil of the invisible whip, and that he who wears it 
can appear in what shape he will, or disappear from 
view altogether. This helmet is a very common article 
in our streets, where it generally takes the form of a 
tall hat. It makes a man invisible as a shareholder, and 
changes him into various shapes, such as a pious 
Christian, a subscriber to hospitals, a benefactor of the 


Scene III The Rhine Gold 19g 


poor, a model husband and father, a shrewd, practical, 
independent Englishman, and what not, when he is 
really a pitiful parasite on the commonwealth, con- 
suming a great deal, and producing nothing, feeling 
nothing, knowing nothing, believing nothing, and 
doing nothing except what all the rest do, and that 
only because he 1s afraid not to do it, or at least pre- 
tend to do it. 

When Wotan and Loki arrive, Loki claims Alberic 
as an old acquaintance. But the dwarf has no faith in 
these civil strangers: Greed instinctively mistrusts In- 
tellect, even in the garb of Poetry and the company 
of Godhead, whilst envying the brilliancy of the one 
and the dignity of the other. Alberic breaks out at 
them with a terrible boast of the power now within 
his grasp. He paints for them the world as it will be 
when his dominion over it is complete, when the soft 
airs and green mosses of its valleys shall be changed 
into smoke, slag, and filth; when slavery, disease, and 
squalor, soothed by drunkenness and mastered by the 
policeman’s ‘baton, shall become the foundation of 
society; and when nothing shall escape ruin except such 
pretty places and pretty women as he may like to buy 
for the slaking of his own lusts. In that kingdom of 
evil he sees that there will be no power but his own. 
These gods, with their moralities and legalities and 
intellectual subtlety, will go under and be starved out 
of existence. He bids Wotan and Loki beware of it; 
and his ‘* Hab’ Acht!”’ is hoarse, horrible, and sinis~ 
ter. Wotan 1s revolted to the very depths of his being: 
he cannot stifle the execration that bursts from him 


20 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene III 


But Loki is unaffected: he has no moral passion: in- 
dignation is as absurd to him as enthusiasm. He finds 
it exquisitely amusing — having a touch of the comic 
spirit in him — that the dwarf, in stirring up the moral 
fervor of Wotan, has removed his last moral scruple 
about becoming a thief. Wotan will now rob the 
dwarf without remorse ; for is it not positively his high- 
est duty to take this power out of such evil hands and 
use it himself in the interests of Godhead? On the 
loftiest moral grounds, he lets Loki do his worst. 

A little cunningly disguised flattery makes short 
work of Alberic. Loki pretends to be afraid of him; 
and he swallows that bait unhesitatingly. But how, en- 
quires Loki, is he to guard against the hatred of his 
million slaves? Will they not steal from him, whilst he 
sleeps, the magic ring, the symbol of his power, which 
he has forged from the gold of the Rhine? “You 
think yourself very clever,” sneers Alberic, and then 
begins to boast of the enchantments of the magic 
helmet. Loki refuses to believe in such marvels with- 
out witnessing them. Alberic, only too glad to shew 
off his powers, puts on the helmet and transforms 
himself into a monstrous serpent. Loki gratifies him 
by pretending to be frightened out of his wits, but 
ventures to remark that it would be better still if the 
helmet could transform its owner into some tiny crea- 
ture that could hide and spy in the smallest cranny. 
Alberic promptly transforms himself into a toad. In an 
instant Wotan’s foot is on him; Loki tears away the 
helmet ; they pinion him, and drag him away a prisoner 
up through the earth to the meadow by the castle. 


Scene IV The Rhine Gold 21 


Fourth Scene 


There, to pay for his freedom, he has to summon 
his slaves from the depths to place all the treasure they 
have heaped up for him at the feet of Wotan. Then 
he demands his liberty; but Wotan must have the 
ring as well. And here the dwarf, like the giant 
before him, feels the very foundations of the world 
shake beneath him at the discovery of his own base 
cupidity in a higher power. That evil should, in its 
loveless desperation, create malign powers which God- 
head could not create, seems but natural justice to him. 
But that Godhead should steal those malign powers 
from evil, and wield them itself, is a monstrous per- 
version ; and his appeal to Wotan to forego it is almost 
terrible in its conviction of wrong. It is of no avail. 
Wotan falls back again on virtuous indignation. He 
reminds Alberic that he stole the gold from the Rhine- 
daughters, and takes the attitude of the just judge com- 
pelling a restitution of stolen goods. Alberic, knowing 
perfectly well that the judge is taking the goods to put 
them in his own pocket, has the ring torn from his 
finger, and is once more as poor as he was when he 
came slipping and stumbling among the slimy rocks 
in the bed of the Rhine. 

This is the way of the world. In older times, when 
the Christian laborer was drained dry by the knightly 
spendthrift, and the spendthrift was drained by the 
Jewish usurer, Church and State, religion and law, 
seized on the Jew and drained him as a Christian duty. 
When the forces of lovelessness and greed had built 


22 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene IV 


up our own sordid capitalist systems, driven by in- 
visible proprietorship, robbing the poor, defacing the 
earth, and forcing themselves as a universal curse even 
on the generous and humane, then religion and law 
and intellect, which would never themselves have dis- 
- covered such systems, their natural bent being towards 
welfare, economy, and life instead of towards corrup- 
tion, waste, and death, nevertheless did not scruple 
to seize by fraud and force these powers of evil on 
pretence of using them for good. And it inevitably 
happens that when the Church, the Law, and all the 
Talents have made common cause to rob the people, 
the Church is far more vitally harmed by that un- 
faithfulness to itself than its more mechanical confeder- 
ates; so that finally they turn on their discredited ally 
and rob the Church, with the cheerful co-operation of 
Loki, as in France and Italy for instance. 

The twin giants come back with their hostage, 
in whose presence Godhead blooms again. The gold is 
ready for them; but now that the moment has come 
for parting with Freia the gold does not seem so tempt- 
ing ; and they are sorely loth to let her go. Not unless 
there is gold enough to utterly hide her from them — 
not until the heap has grown so that they can see 
nothing but gold — until money has come between 
them and every human feeling, will they part with her. 
There is not gold enough to accomplish this : however 
cunningly Loki spreads it, the glint of Freia’s hair is 
still visible to Giant Fafnir, and the magic helmet 
must go on the heap to shut it out. Even then Fafnir’s 
brother, Fasolt, can catch a beam from her eye through 


Scene IV The Rhine Gold 23 


a chink, and is rendered incapable thereby of forswear- 
ing her. There 1s nothing to stop that chink but the 
ring ; and Wotan is as greedily bent on keeping that 
as Alberic himself was; nor can the other gods per- 
suade him that Freia is worth it, since for the highest 
god, love is not the highest good, but only the uni- 
versal delight that bribes all living things to travail 
with renewed life. Life itself, with its accomplished 
marvels and its infinite potentialities, is the only force 
that Godhead can worship. Wotan does not yield until 
he is reached by the voice of the fruitful earth, that 
before he or the dwarfs or the giants or the Law or 
the Lie or any of these things were, had the seed of 
them all in her bosom, and the seed perhaps of some- 
thing higher even than himself, that shall one day 
supersede him and cut the tangles and alliances and 
compromises that already have cost him one of his 
eyes. When Erda, the First Mother of life, rises from 
her sleeping-place in the heart of the earth, and warns 
him to yield the ring, he obeys her ; the ring is added 
to the heap of gold; and all sense of Freia is cut off 
from the giants. 

But now what Law is left to these two poor stupid 
laborers whereby one shall yield to the other any of 
the treasure for which they have each paid the whole 
price in surrendering Freia? They look by mere habit 
to the god to judge for them; but he, with his heart 
stirring towards higher forces than himself, turns with 
disgust from these lower forces. They settle 1t as two 
wolves might; and Fafnir batters his brother dead 
with his staff. It is a horrible thing to see and hear, 


24 The Perfect Wagnerite Scene IV 


to anyone who knows how much blood has been shed 
in the world in just that way by its brutalized toilers, 
honest fellows enough until their betters betrayed them. 
Fafnir goes off with his booty. It is quite useless to 
him. He has neither the cunning nor the ambition to 
establish the Plutonic empire with it. Merely to pre- 
vent others from getting it is the only purpose it 
brings him. He piles it in a cave; transforms him- 
self into a dragon by the helmet; and devotes his life 
to guarding it, as much a slave to it as a jailor is to his 
prisoner. He had much better have thrown it all back 
into the Rhine and transformed himself into the short- 
est-lived animal that enjoys at least a brief run in the 
sunshine. His case, however, is far too common to be 
surprising. The world ts overstocked with persons who 
sacrifice all their affections, and madly trample and 
batter down their fellows to obtain riches of which, 
when they get them, they are unable to make the 
smallest use, and to which they become the most 
miserable slaves. 

The gods soon forget Fafnir in their rejoicing over 
Freia. Donner, the Thunder god, springs to a rocky 
summit and calls the clouds as a shepherd calls his 
flocks. They come at his summons; and he and the 
castle are hidden by their black legions. Froh, the 
Rainbow god, hastens to his side. At the stroke of 
Donner’s hammer the black murk is riven in all 
directions by darting ribbons of lightning ; and as the 
air clears, the castle is seen in its fullest splendor, 
accessible now by the rainbow bridge which Froh has 
cast across the ravine. In the glory of this moment 


Scene IV The Rhine Gold 25 


Wotan has a great thought. With all his aspirations 
to establish a reign of noble thought, of righteous- 
ness, order, and justice, he has found that day that 
there is no race yet in the world that quite spontane- 
ously, naturally, and unconsciously realizes his ideal. 
He himself has found how far short Godhead falls of 
the thing it conceives. He, the greatest of gods, has 
been unable to control his fate: he has been forced 
against his will to choose between evils, to make 
disgraceful bargains, to break them still more dis- 
gracefully, and even then to see the price of his disgrace 
slip through his fingers. His consort has cost him half 
his vision; his castle has cost him his affections; and 
the attempt to retain both has cost him his honor. 
On every side he is shackled and bound, dependent 
on the laws of Fricka and on the lies of Loki, forced 
to traffic with dwarfs for handicraft and with giants 
for strength, and to pay them both in false coin. After 
all, a god is a pitiful.thing. But the fertility of the 
First Mother is not yet exhausted. The life that came 
from her has ever climbed up to a higher and higher 
organization. From toad and serpent to dwarf, from 
bear and elephant to giant, from dwarf and giant to 
a god with thoughts, with comprehension of the 
world, with ideals. Why should it stop there? Why 
should it not rise from the god to the Hero? to the 
creature in whom the god’s unavailing thought shall 
have become effective will and life, who shall make 
his way straight to truth and reality over the laws of 
Fricka and the lies of Loki with a strength that over- 
comes giants and a cunning that outwits dwarfs? Yes: 


26 The Perfect Wagnerite scene IV 


Erda, the First Mother, must travail again, and breed 
him a race of heroes to deliver the world and himself 
from his limited powers and disgraceful bargains. 
This is the vision that flashes on him as he turns to the 
rainbow bridge and calls his wife to come and dwell 
with him in Valhalla, the home of the gods. 

They are all overcome with Valhalla’s glory ex- 
cept Loki. He is behind the scenes of this joint reign 
of the Divine and the Legal. He despises these gods 
with their ideals and their golden apples. “I am 
ashamed,” he says, ‘to have dealings with these futile 
creatures.”’ And so he follows them to the rainbow 
bridge. But as they set foot on it, from the river 
below rises the wailing of the Rhine-daughters for 
their lost gold. “‘ You down there in the water,” cries 
Loki with brutal irony: “you used to bask in the 
glitter of your gold: henceforth you shall bask in the 
splendor of the gods.”’ And they reply that the truth 
is in the depths and the darkness, and that what 
blazes on high there is falsehood. And with that the 
gods pass into their glorious stronghold. 


WAGNER AS REVOLUTIONIST 


Berore leaving this explanation of The Rhine Gold, 
I must have a word or two about it with the reader. 

It is the least popular of the sections of The Ring. 
The reason is that its dramatic moments lie quite 
outside the consciousness of people whose joys and 
sorrows are all domestic and personal, and whose 
religions and political ideas are purely conventional 
and superstitious. To them it is a struggle between 
half a dozen fairytale personages for a ring, involving 
hours of scolding and cheating, and one long scene in 
a dark, gruesome mine, with gloomy, ugly music, 
and not a glimpse of a handsome young man or 
pretty woman. Only those of wider consciousness can 
follow it breathlessly, seeing in it the whole tragedy 
of human history and the whole horror of the 
dilemmas from which the world is shrinking today. 
At Bayreuth I have seen a party of English tourists, 
after enduring agonies of boredom from Alberic, rise 
in the middle of the third scene, and almost force 
their way out of the dark theatre into the sunlit pine- 
wood without. And I have seen people who were 
deeply affected by the scene driven almost beside 


28 The Perfect Wagnerite 


themselves by this disturbance. But it was a very 
natural thing for the unfortunate tourists to do, since 
in this Rhine Gold prologue there is no interval 
between the acts for escape. Roughly speaking, people 
who have no general ideas, no touch of the concern of 
the philosopher and statesman for the race, cannot 
enjoy The Rhine Gold as a drama. They may find 
compensations in some exceedingly pretty music, at 
times even grand and glorious, which will enable them 
to escape occasionally from the struggle between 
Alberic and Wotan; but if their capacity for music 
should be as limited as their comprehension of the 
world, they had better stay away. 

And now, attentive Reader, we have reached the 
point at which some foolish person is sure to interrupt 
us by declaring that The Rhine Gold is what they call 
‘“‘a work of art” pure and simple, and that Wagner 
never dreamt of shareholders, tall hats, whitelead 
factories, and industrial and political questions looked 
at from the socialistic and humanitarian points of view. 
We need not discuss these impertinences : it is easier to 
silence them with the facts of Wagner’s life. In 1843 he 
obtained the position of conductor of the Opera at Dres- 
den at a salary of £225 a year, with a pension. This 
was a first-rate permanent appointment in the service 
of the Saxon State, carrying an assured professional 
position and livelihood with it. In 1848, the year of 
revolutions, the discontented middle class, unable to 
rouse the Church-and-State governments of the day 
from their bondage to custom, caste, and law by 
appeals to morality or constitutional agitation for 


Wagener as Revolutionist 29 


Liberal reforms, made common cause with the starv- 
ing wage-working class, and resorted to armed re- 
bellion, which reached Dresden in 1849. Had Wagner 
been the mere musical epicure and political mugwump 
that the term “‘artist’’ seems to suggest toso many critics 
and amateurs — that is, a creature in their own lazy 
likeness — he need have taken no more part in the 
political struggles of his day than Bishop took in the 
English Reform agitation of 1832, or Sterndale Ben- 
nett in the Chartist or Free Trade movements. What 
he did do was first to make a desperate appeal to the 
King to cast off his bonds and answer the need of the 
time by taking true kingship on himself and leading 
his people to the redress of their intolerable wrongs 
(fancy the poor monarch’s feelings!), and then, when 
the crash came, to take his side with the right and the 
poor against the rich and the wrong. When the in- 
surrection was defeated, three leaders of it were especi- 
ally marked down for vengeance: August Roeckel, an 
old friend of Wagner’s to whom he wrote a well- 
known series of letters ; Michael Bakoonin, afterwards 
a famous apostle of revolutionary Anarchism; and 
Wagner himself. Wagner escaped to Switzerland : 
Roeckel and Bakoonin suffered long terms of imprison- 
ment. Wagner was of course utterly ruined, pecuniar- 
ily and socially (to his own intense relief and satisfac- 
tion) ; and his exile lasted twelve years. His first idea 
was to get his Tannhauser produced in Paris. With 
the notion of explaining himself to the Parisians he 
wrote a pamphlet entitled Art and Revolution, a glance 
through which will show how thoroughly the socialistic 


30 The Perfect Wagnerite 


side of the revolution had his sympathy, and how com- 
pletely he had got free from the influence of the estab- 
lished Churches of his day. For three years he kept 
pouring forth pamphlets ——some of them elaborate 
treatises in size and intellectual rank, but still essenti- 
ally the pamphlets and manifestoes of a born agitator 
— on social evolution, religion, life, art and the in- 
fluence of riches. In 1853 the poem of The Ring was 
privately printed; and in 1854, five years after the 
Dresden insurrection, The Rhine Gold score was com- 
pleted to the last drum tap. 

These facts are on official record in Germany, where 
the proclamation summing up Wagner as “a politi- 
cally dangerous person” may be consulted to this day. 
The pamphlets are now accessible to English readers 
in the translation of Mr Ashton Ellis. This being so, 
any person who, having perhaps heard that I am a 
Socialist, attempts to persuade you that my interpreta- 
tion of The Rhine Gold is only “my socialism” 
read into the works of a dilettantist who borrowed 
an idle tale from an old saga to make an opera book 
with, may safely be dismissed from your consideration 
as an ignoramus. 

If you are now satisfied that The Rhine Gold 1s an 
allegory, do not forget that an allegory is never quite 
consistent except when it is written by someone with- 
out dramatic faculty, in which case it is unreadable. 
There is only one way of dramatizing an idea ; and that 
is by putting on the stage a human being possessed by 
that idea, yet none the less a human being with all the 
human impulses which make him akin and therefore 


Wagner as Revolutionist on 


interesting to us. Bunyan, in his Pilgrim’s Progress, 
does not, like his unread imitators, attempt to personify 
Christianity and Valour: he dramatizes for you the 
life of the Christian and the Valiant Man. Just so, 
though I have shown that Wotan is Godhead and King- 
ship, and Loki Logic and Imagination without living 
Will (Brain without Heart, to put it vulgarly) ; yet in 
the drama Wotan 1s a religiously moral man, and Loki 
a witty, ingenious, imaginative and cynical one. As to 
Fricka, who stands for State Law, she does not assume 
her allegorical character in The Rhine Gold at all, but 
is simply Wotan’s wife and Freia’s sister : nay, she con- 
tradicts her allegorical self by conniving at all Wotan’s 
rogueries. That, of course, is just what State Law would 
do; but we must not save the credit of the allegory 
by a quip. Not until she reappears in the next play 
(The Valkyries) does her function in the allegorical 
scheme become plain. 

One preconception will bewilder the spectator 
hopelessly unless he has been warned against it or is 
naturally free from it. In the old-fashioned orders of 
creation, the supernatural personages are invariably 
conceived as greater than man, for good or evil. In 
the modern humanitarian order as adopted by Wagner, 
Man is the highest. In The Rhine Gold, it is pre- 
tended that there are as yet no men on the earth. There 
are dwarfs, giants, and gods. The danger 1s that you 
will jump to the conclusion that the gods, at least, 
are a higher order than the human order. On the 
contrary, the world is waiting for Man to redeem it 
from the lame and cramped government of the gods. 


32 The Perfect Wagnerite 


Once grasp that; and the allegory becomes simple 
enough. Really, of course, the dwarfs, giants, and 
gods are dramatizations of the three main orders of 
men : to wit, the instinctive, predatory, lustful, greedy 
people; the patient, toiling, stupid, respectful, money- 
worshipping people; and the intellectual, moral, 
talented people who devise and administer States and 
Churches. History shows us only one order higher 
than the highest of these: namely, the order of 
Heroes. 

Now it is quite clear — though you have perhaps 
never thought of it — that if the next generation of 
Englishmen consisted wholly of Julius Czsars, all 
our political, ecclesiastical, and moral institutions 
would vanish, and the less perishable of their ap- 
purtenances be classed with Stonehenge and the 
cromlechs and round towers as inexplicable relics of 
a bygone social order. Julius Czsars would no more 
trouble themselves about such contrivances as our 
codes and churches than a Fellow of the Royal Society 
will touch his hat to the squire and listen to the 
village curate’s sermons. This is precisely what must 
happen some day if life continues thrusting towards 
higher and higher organization as it has hitherto done. 
As most of our English professional men are to 
Australian bushmen, so, we must suppose, will the 
average man of some future day be to Julius Cesar. 
Let any man of middle age, pondering this prospect, 
consider what has happened within a single generation 
to the articles of faith his father regarded as eternal, 
nay, to the very scepticisms and blasphemies of his 





Wagner as Revolutionist 33 


youth (Bishop Colenso’s criticism of the Pentateuch, 
for example!) ; and he will begin to realize how much 
of our barbarous Theology and Law the man of the 
future will do without. Bakoonin, the Dresden re- 
volutionary leader with whom Wagner went out in 
1849, put forward later on a program, often quoted 
with foolish horror, for the abolition of all institutions, 
religious, political, juridical, financial, legal, academic, 
and so on, so as to leave the will of man free to find its 
own way. All the loftiest spirits of that time were 
burning to raise Man up, to give him self-respect, to 
shake him out of his habit of grovelling before the 
ideals created by his own imagination, of attributing 
the good that sprang from the ceaseless energy of the 
life within himself to some superior power in the 
clouds, and of making a fetish of self-sacrifice to 
justify his own cowardice. 

Farther on in The Ring we shall see the Hero 
arrive and make an end of dwarfs, giants, and gods. 
Meanwhile, let us not forget that godhood means to 
Wagner infirmity and compromise, and manhood 
strength and integrity. Above all, we must understand 
— for it is the key to much that we are to see — 
that the god, since his desire is toward a higher and 
fuller life, must long in his inmost soul for the advent 
of that greater power whose first work, though this 
he does not see as yet, must be his own undoing. 

In the midst of all these far-reaching ideas, it is 
amusing to find Wagner still full of his ingrained 
theatrical professionalism, and introducing effects 
which now seem old-fashioned and stagey with as 

D 


34 The Perfect Wagnerite 


much energy and earnestness as if they were his 
loftiest inspirations. When Wotan wrests the ring 
from Alberic, the dwarf delivers a lurid and blood- 
curdling stage curse, calling down on its every future 
possessor care, fear, and death. The musical phrase 
accompanying this outburst was a veritable harmonic 
and melodic bogey to mid-century ears, though time 
has now robbed it of its terrors. It sounds again when 
Fafnir slays Fasolt, and on every subsequent occasion 
when the ring brings death to its holder. This episode 
must justify itself purely as a piece of stage sen- 
sationalism. On deeper ground it is superfluous and 
confusing, as the ruin to which the pursuit of riches 
leads needs no curse to explain it; nor is there any 
sense in investing Alberic with providential powers 
in the matter 


THE VALKYRIES 


Berore the curtain rises on the Valkyries, let us see 
what has happened since it fell on The Rhine Gold. 
The persons of the drama will tell us presently; but 
as we probably do not understand German, that may 
not help us. 

Wotan is still ruling the world in glory from his 
giant-built castle with his wife Fricka. But he has no 
security for the continuance of his reign, since Alberic 
may at any moment contrive to recover the ring, the 
full power of which he can wield because he has for- 
sworn love. Such forswearing is not possible to Wotan: 
love, though not his highest need, is a higher than 
gold: otherwise he would be no god. Besides, as we 
have seen, his power has been established 1n the world 
by and as a system of laws enforced by penalties. 
These he must consent to be bound by himself; for a 
god who broke his own laws would betray the fact 
that legality and conformity are not the highest rule 
of conduct — a discovery fatal to his supremacy as 
Pontiff and Lawgiver. Hence he may not wrest the 
ring unlawfully from Fafnir, even if he could bring 
himself to forswear love. 


36 The Perfect Wagnerite 


In this insecurity he has hit on the idea of forming 
a heroic bodyguard. He has trained his love children 
as war-maidens (Valkyries) whose duty it is to sweep 
through battle-fields and bear away to Valhalla the 
souls of the bravest who fall there. Thus reinforced 
by a host of warriors, he has thoroughly indoctrinated 
them, Loki helping him as dialectician-in-chief, with 
the conventional system of law and duty, supernatural 
religion and self-sacrificing idealism, which they be- 
lieve to be the essence of his godhood, but which is 
really only the machinery of the love of necessary 
power which is his mortal weakness. This process secures 
their fanatical devotion to his system of government; 
but he knows perfectly well that such systems, in spite 
of their moral pretensions, serve selfish and ambitious 
tyrants better than benevolent despots, and that, if 
once Alberic gets the ring back, he will easily out- 
Valhalla Valhalla, if not buy it over as a going concern. 
The only chance of permanent security, then, 1s the 
appearance in the world of a hero who, without any 
illicit prompting from Wotan, will destroy Alberic 
and wrest the ring from Fafnir. There will then, he 
believes, be no further cause for anxiety, since he does 
not yet conceive Heroism as a force hostile to God- 
head. In his longing for a rescuer, it does not occur 
to him that when the Hero comes, his first exploit 
must be to sweep the gods and their ordinances from 
the path of the heroic will. 
Indeed, he feels that in his own Godhead is the 
erm of such Heroism, and that from himself the 
Hero must spring. He takes to wandering, mostly 


The Valkyries 37 


in search of love, from Fricka and Valhalla. He seeks 
the First Mother; and through her womb, eternally 
fertile, the inner true thought that made him first a 
god is reborn. as his daughter, uncorrupted by his am- 
bition, unfettered by his machinery of power and his 
alliances with Fricka and Loki. This daughter, the 
Valkyrie Brynhild, is his true will, his real self (as he 
thinks): to her he may say what he must not say to 
anyone, since in speaking to her he but speaks to him- 
self. “Was Keinem in Worten unausgesprochen,”’ he 
says to her, ‘‘bletb es ewig: mit mir nur rath’ ich, 
red’ ich zu dir.” 

But from Brynhild no hero can spring until there 
is a man of Wotan’s race to breed with her. Wotan 
wanders further; and a mortal woman bears him 
twins: a son and a daughter. He separates them by 
letting the girl fall into the hands of a forest tribe 
which in due time gives her as wife to a fierce chief, 
one Hunding. With the son he himself leads the life 
of a wolf, and teaches him the only power a god can 
teach, the power of doing without happiness. When 
he has given him this terrible training, he abandons 
him, and goes to the bridal feast of his daughter Sieg- 
linda and Hunding. In the blue cloak of the wan- 
derer, wearing the broad hat that flaps over the socket 
of his forfeited eye, he appears in Hunding’s house, 
the middle pillar of which is a mightytree. Into that 
tree, without a word, he strikes a sword up to the hilt, 
so that only the might of a hero can withdraw it. 
Then he goes out as silently as he came, blind to the 
truth that no weapon from the armory of Godhead 


38 The Perfect Wagnerite = Act! 


can serve the turn of the true Human Hero. Neither 
Hunding nor any of his guests can move the sword ; 
and there it stays awaiting the destined hand. That is 
the history of the generations between The Rhine 
Gold and The Valkyries. 


The First Act 


This time, as we sit looking expectantly at the 
curtain, we hear, not the deep booming of the Rhine, 
but the patter of a forest downpour, accompanied by 
the mutter of a storm which soon gathers into a roar 
and culminates in crashing thunderbolts. As it passes 
off, the curtain rises ; and there is no mistaking whose 
forest habitation we are in; for the central pillar is a 
mighty tree, and the place fit for the dwelling of a 
fierce chief. The door opens; and an exhausted man 
reels in: an adept from the school of unhappiness. 
Sieglinda finds him lying on the hearth. He explains 
that he has been in a fight ; that his weapons, not being 
as strong as his arms, were broken ; and that he had to 
fly. He desires some drink and a moment’s rest; then 
he will go; for he is an unlucky person, and does not 
want to bring his ill-luck on the woman who is suc- 
coring him. But she, it appears, is also unhappy; and 
a strong sympathy springs up between them. When 
her husband arrives, he observes not only this sym- 
pathy, but a resemblance between them, a gleam of 
the snake in their eyes. They sit down to table; and 
the stranger tells them his unlucky story. He is the 
son of Wotan, who is known to him only as Wolfing, 


Act I The Valkyries 39 


of the race of the Volsungs. The earliest thing he re- 
members is returning from a hunt with his father to 
find their home destroyed, his mother murdered, and 
his twin-sister carried off. This was the work of a 
tribe called the Neidings, upon whom he and Wolfing 
thenceforth waged implacable war until the day when 
his father disappeared, leaving no trace of himself but 
an empty wolfskin. The young Volsung was thus 
cast alone upon the world, finding most hands against 
him, and bringing no good luck even to his friends. 
His latest exploit has been the slaying of certain 
brothers who were forcing their sister to wed against 
her will. The result has been the slaughter of the 
woman by her brothers’ clansmen, and his own narrow 
escape by flight. 

His luck on this occasion is even worse than he 
supposes ; for Hunding, by whose hearth he has taken 
refuge, is clansman to the slain brothers and is bound 
to avenge them. He ‘tells the Volsung that in the 
morning, weapons or no weapons, he must fight for 
his life. Then he orders the woman to bed, and follows 
her himself, taking his spear with him. 

The unlucky stranger, left brooding by the hearth, 
has nothing to console himself with but an old promise 
of his father’s that he shall find a weapon to his hand 
when he most needs one. The last flicker of the dying 
fire strikes on the golden hilt of the sword that sticks 
in the tree; but he does not see it; and the embers 
sink into blackness. Then the woman returns. Hund- 
ing is safely asleep: she has drugged him. She tells 
the story of the one-eyed man who appeared at her 


40 The Perfect Wagnerite Act II 


forced marriage, and of the sword. She has always 
felt, she says, that her miseries will end in the arms of 
the hero who shall succeed in drawing it forth. The 
stranger, diffident as he is about his luck, has no mis- 
givings as to his strength and destiny. He gives her his 
affection at once, and abandons himself to the charm 
of the night and the season; for it is the beginning of 
Spring. They soon learn from their confidences that 
she is his stolen twin-sister. He 1s transported to find 
that the heroic race of the Volsungs need neither 
perish nor be corrupted by a lower strain. Hailing the 
sword by the name of Nothung (or Needed), he 
plucks it from the tree as her bride-gift, and then, 
crying ‘ Both bride and sister be of thy brother; and 
blossom the blood of the Volsungs!”’ clasps her as 
the mate the Spring has brought him. 


The Second Act 


So far, Wotan’s plan seems prospering. In the 
mountains he calls his war-maiden Brynhild, the child 
borne to him by the First Mother, and bids her see 
to it that Hunding shall fall in the approaching com- 
bat. But he is reckoning without his consort, Fricka. 
What will she, the Law, say to the lawless pair who 
have heaped incest on adultery? A hero may have 
defied the law, and put his own will in its place; but 
can a god hold him guiltless, when the whole power 
of the gods can enforce itself only by law? Fricka, 
shuddering with horror, outraged in every instinct, 
comes clamoring for punishment. Wotan pleads the 


Act II The Valkyries 41 


general necessity of encouraging heroism in order to 
keep up the Valhalla bodyguard; but his remon- 
strances only bring upon him torrents of reproaches 
for his own unfaithfulness to the law in roaming 
through the world and begetting war-maidens, ‘‘ wolf- 
cubs,” and the like. He is hopelessly beaten in the 
argument. Fricka is absolutely right when she de- 
clares that the ending of the gods began when he 
brought this wolf-hero into the world; and now, to 
save their very existence, she pitilessly demands his 
destruction. Wotan has no power to refuse: it is 
Fricka’s mechanical force, and not his thought, that 
really rules the world. He has to recall Brynhild; take 
back his former instructions; and ordain that Hund- 
ing shall slay the Volsung. 

But now comes another difficulty. Brynhild is the 
inner thought and will of Godhead, the aspiration 
from the high life to the higher that is its divine ele- 
ment, and only becomes separated from it when its 
resort to kingship and priestcraft for the sake of tem- 
poral power has made it false to itself. Hitherto, 
Brynhild, as Valkyrie or hero chooser, has obeyed 
Wotan implicitly, taking her work as the holiest and 
bravest in his kingdom; and now he tells her what he 
could not tell Fricka — what indeed he could not tell 
to Brynhild, were she not, as she says, his own will — 
the whole story of Alberic and of that inspiration 
about the raising up of a hero. She thoroughly ap- 
proves of the inspiration ; but when the story ends in 
the assumption that she too must obey Fricka, and 
help Fricka’s vassal, Hunding, to undo the great work 


42 The Perfect Wagnerite = Act II 


and strike the hero down, she for the first time hesi- 
tates to accept his command. In his fury and despair 
he overawes her by the most terrible threats of his 
anger ; and she submits. 

Then comes the Volsung Siegmund, following his 
sister bride, who has fled into the mountains in a re- 
vulsion of horror at having allowed herself to bring 
her hero to shame. Whilst she is lying exhausted and 
senseless in his arms, Brynhild appears to him and 
solemnly warns him that he must presently leave the 
earth with her. He asks whither he must follow her. 
To Valhalla, to take his place there among the heroes. 
He asks, shall he find his father there? Yes. Shall he 
find a wife there? Yes: he will be waited on by beauti- 
ful wish-maidens. Shall he meet his sister there? No. 
Then, says Siegmund, I will not come with you. She 
tries to make him understand that he cannot help 
himself. Being a hero, he will not be so persuaded: he 
has his father’s sword, and does not fear Hunding. 
But when she tells him that she comes from his father, 
and that the sword of a god will not avail in the hands 
of a hero, he accepts his fate, but will shape it with 
his own hand, both for himself and his sister, by slay- 
ing her, and then killing himself with the last stroke 
of the sword. And thereafter he will go to Hell, rather 
than to Valhalla. 

How now can Brynhild, being what she 1s, choose 
her side freely in a conflict between this hero and the 
vassal of Fricka? By instinct she at once throws 
Wotan’s command to the winds, and bids Siegmund 
nerve himself for the combat with Hunding, in which 


Act III The Valkyries 43 


she pledges him the protection of her shield. The horn 
of Hunding is soon heard; and Siegmund’s spirits rise 
to fighting pitch at once. The two meet; and the 
Valkyrie’s shield is held before the hero. But when 
he delivers his sword-stroke at his foe, the weapon 
shivers on the spear of Wotan, who suddenly appears 
between them; and the first of the race of heroes falls 
with the weapon of the Law’s vassal through his 
breast. Brynhild snatches the fragments of the broken 
sword, and flies, carrying off the woman with her on 
her war-horse ; and Wotan, in terrible wrath, slays 
Hunding with a wave of his hand, and starts in pursuit 
of his disobedient daughter. 


The Third Act 


On a rocky peak, four of the Valkyries are waiting 
for the rest. The absent ones soon arrive, galloping 
through the air with slain heroes, gathered from the 
battle-field, hanging over their saddles. Only, Bryn- 
hild, who comes last, has for her spoil a live woman. 
When her eight sisters learn that she has defied Wotan, 
they dare not help her; and Brynhild has to rouse 
Sieglinda to make an effort to save herself, by re- 
minding her that she bears in her the seed of a hero, 
and must face everything, endure anything, sooner 
than let that seed miscarry. Sieglinda, in a transport 
of exaltation, takes the fragments of the sword and 
flies into the forest. Then Wotan comes ; the sisters 
fly in terror at his command ; and he is left alone with 
Brynhild. 


44 The Perfect Wagnerite Act II 


Here, then, we have the first of the inevitable 
moments which Wotan did not foresee. Godhead has 
now established its dominion over the world by a 
mighty Church, compelling obedience through its ally 
the Law, with its formidable State organization of 
force of arms and cunning of brain. It has submitted 
to this alliance to keep the Plutonic power in check 
— built it up primarily for the sake of that soul in 
itself which cares only to make the highest better and 
the best higher; and now here is that very soul 
separated from it and working for the destruction of 
its indispensable ally, the lawgiving State. How ts the 
rebel to be disarmed? Slain it cannot be by Godhead, 
since it is still Godhead’s own very dearest soul. But 
hidden, stifled, silenced it must be; or it will wreck 
the State and leave the Church defenceless. Not un- 
til it passes completely away from Godhead, and is 
reborn as the soul of the hero, can it work anything 
but the confusion and destruction of the existing 
order. How is the world to be protected against it in 
the meantime? Clearly Loki’s help is needed here: 
it is the Lie that must, on the highest principles, hide 
the Truth. Let Loki surround this mountain top with 
the appearance of a consuming fire; and who will dare 
penetrate to Brynhild? It is true that if any man will 
walk boldly into that fire, he will discover it at once 
to be a lie, an illusion, a mirage through which he 
might carry a sack of gunpowder without being a 
penny the worse. Therefore let the fire seem so terrible 
that only the hero, when in the fulness of time he appears 
upon earth, will venture through it ; and the problem 


Act II The Valkyries 4.5 


is solved. Wotan, with a breaking heart, takes leave 
of Brynhild; throws her into a deep sleep; covers her 
with her long warshield; summons Loki, who comes 
in the shape of a wall of fire surrounding the mountain 
peak; and turns his back on Brynhild for ever. 

The allegory here is happily not so glaringly 
obvious to the younger generations of our educated 
classes as it was forty years ago. In those days, any 
child who expressed a doubt as to the absolute truth 
of the Church’s teaching, even to the extent of asking 
why Joshua told the sun to stand still instead of telling 
the earth to cease turning, or of pointing out that a 
whale’s throat would hardly have been large enough 
to swallow Jonah, was unhesitatingly told that if it 
harboured such doubts it would spend all eternity 
after its death in horrible torments in a lake of burn- 
ing brimstone. It is difficult to write or read this 
nowadays without laughing; yet no doubt millions of 
ignorant and credulous people are still teaching their 
children that. When Wagner himself was a little child, 
the fact that hell was a fiction devised for the in- 
timidation and subjection of the masses, was a well- 
kept secret of the thinking and governing classes, At 
that time the fires of Loki were a very real terror to 
all except persons of exceptional force of character 
and intrepidity of thought. Even thirty years after 
Wagner had printed the verses of The Ring for 
private circulation, we find him excusing himself 
from perfectly explicit denial of current superstitions, 
by reminding his readers that it would expose him to 
prosecution. In England, so many of our respectable 


46 The Perfect Wagnerite Act III 


voters are still grovelling in a gloomy devil worship, 
of which the fires of Loki are the main bulwark, that 
no Government has yet had the conscience or the 
courage to repeal our monstrous laws against “ blas- 
phemy.”’ 


SIEGFRIED 


SIEGLINDA, when she flies into the forest with the 
hero’s son unborn in her womb, and the broken 
pieces of his sword in her hand, finds shelter in the 
smithy of a dwarf, where she brings forth her child 
and dies. This dwarf is no other than Mimmy, the 
brother of Alberic, the same who made for him the 
magic helmet. His aim in life is to gain possession of 
the helmet, the ring, and the treasure, and through 
them to obtain that Plutonic mastery of the world 
under the beginnings of which he himself writhed 
during Alberic’s brief reign. Mimmy is a blinking, 
shambling, ancient creature, too weak and timid to 
dream of taking arms himself to despoil Fafnir, who 
still, transformed to a monstrous serpent, broods on 
the gold in a hole in the rocks. Mimmy needs the 
help of a hero for that; and he has craft enough to 
know that it is quite possible, and indeed much in 
the ordinary way of the world, for senile avarice and 
craft to set youth and bravery to work to win empire 
for it. He knows the pedigree of the child left on his 
hands, and nurses it to manhood with great care. 

His pains are too well rewarded for his comfort. 


48 The Perfect Wagnerite = Act 1 


The boy Siegfried, having no god to instruct him in 
the art of unhappiness, inherits none of his father’s ill 
luck, and all his father’s hardihood. The fear against 
which Siegmund set his face like flint, and the woe which 
he wore down, are unknown to the son. The father 
was faithful and grateful: the son knows no law but 
his own humor; detests the ugly dwarf who has 
nursed him; chafes furiously under his claims for 
some return for his tender care; and is, in short, 
a totally unmoral person, a born anarchist, the ideal 
of Bakoonin, an anticipation of the “overman” of 
Nietzsche. He is enormously strong, fullof life and 
fun, dangerous and destructive to what he dislikes, 
and affectionate to what he likes; so that it is fortunate 
that his likes and dislikes are sane and healthy. Al- 
together an inspiriting young forester, a son of the 
morning, in whom the heroic race has come out into 
the sunshine from the clouds of his grandfather’s 
majestic entanglements with law, and the night of his 
father’s tragic struggle with it. 


The First Act 


Mimmy’s smithy is a cave, in which he hides from 
the light like the eyeless fish of the American caverns. 
Before the curtain rises the music already tells us that 
we are groping in darkness. When it does rise Mimmy 
is in difficulties. He is trying to make a sword for 
his nursling, who is now big enough to take the field 
against Fafnir. Mimmy can make mischievous swords; 
but it is not with dwarfmade weapons that heroic 


Act I Siegfried 49 


man will hew the way of his own will through re- 
ligions and governments and plutocracies and all the 
other devices of the kingdom of the fears of the un- 
heroic. As fast as Mimmy makes swords, Siegfried 
Bakoonin smashes them, and then takes the poor old 
swordsmith by the scruff of the neck and chastises 
him wrathfully. The particular day on which the 
curtain rises begins with one of these trying domestic 
incidents. Mimmy has just done his best with a new 
sword of surpassing excellence. Siegfried returns home 
in rare spirits with a wild bear, to the extreme terror 
of the wretched dwarf. When the bear is dismissed, 
the new sword is produced. It is promptly smashed, as 
usual, with, also, the usual effects on the temper of 
Siegfried, who is quite boundless in his criticisms of 
the smith’s boasted skill, and declares that he would 
smash the sword’s maker too if he were not too dis- 
gusting to be handled. . 

Mimmy falls back on his stock defence: a string 
of maudlin reminders of the care with which he has 
nursed the little boy into manhood. Siegfried replies 
candidly that the strangest thing about all this care 1s 
that instead of making him grateful, it inspires him 
with a lively desire to wring the dwarf’s neck. Only, 
he admits that he always comes back to his Mimmy, 
though he loathes him more than any living thing in 
the forest. On this admission the dwarf attempts to 
build a theory of filial instinct. He explains that he is 
Siegfried’s father, and that this is why Siegfried can- 
not do without him. But Siegfried has learned from his 
forest companions, the birds and foxes and wolves, 

E 


50 The Perfect Wagnerite Act 1 


that mothers as well as fathers go to the making of 
children. Mimmy, on the desperate ground that man 
is neither bird nor fox, declares that he is Siegfried’s 
father and mother both. He is promptly denounced 
as a filthy liar, because the birds and foxes are ex- 
actly like their parents, whereas Siegfried, having 
often watched his own image in the water, can testify 
that he is no more like Mimmy than a toad is like 
a trout. Then, to place the conversation on a plane 
of entire frankness, he throttles Mimmy until he is 
speechless. When the dwarf recovers, he 1s so daunted 
that he tells Siegfried the truth about his birth, and 
for testimony thereof produces the pieces of the sword 
that broke upon Wotan’s spear. Siegfried instantly 
orders him to repair the sword on pain of an un- 
merciful thrashing, and rushes off into the forest, re- 
joicing in the discovery that heis no kinof Mimmy’s, 
and need have no more to do with him when the 
sword is mended. 

Poor Mimmy is now in a worse plight than ever; 
for he has long ago found that the sword utterly 
defies his skill: the steel will yield neither to his ham- 
mer nor to his furnace. Just then there walks into his 
cave a Wanderer, in a blue mantle, spear in hand, 
with one eye concealed by the brim of his wide hat. 
Mimmy, not by nature hospitable, tries to drive him 
away; but the Wanderer announces himself as a wise 
man, who can tell his host, in emergency, what it most 
concerns him to know. Mimmy, taking this offer in 
high dudgeon, because it implies that his visitor’s wits 
are better than his own, offers to tell the wise one 


Act I Siegfried 51 
something that 4e does not know: to wit, the way to 
the door. The imperturbable Wanderer’s reply is to 
sit down and challenge the dwarf to a trial of wit. 
He wagers his head against Mimmy’s that he wil] 
answer any three questions the dwarf can put to him. 

Now here were Mimmy’s opportunity, had he only 
the wit to ask what he wants to know, instead of pre- 
tending to know everything already. It is above all 
things needful to him at this moment to find out how 
that sword can be mended; and there has just dropped 
in upon him in his need the one person who can tell 
him. In such circumstances a wise man would hasten 
to show to his visitor his three deepest ignorances, and 
ask him to dispel them. The dwarf, being a crafty 
fool, desiring only to detect ignorance in his guest, 
asks him for information on the three points on which 
he is proudest of being thoroughly well instructed 
himself. His three questions are, Who dwell under 
the earth ? Who dwell on the earth ? and Who dwell 
in the cloudy heights above ? The Wanderer, in reply, 
tells him of the dwarfs and of Alberic; of the earth, 
and the giants Fasolt and Fafnir; of the gods and of 
Wotan: himself, as Mimmy now recognizes with awe. 

Next, it is Mimmy’s turn to face three questions. 
What is that race, dearest to Wotan, against which 
Wotan has nevertheless done his worst ? Mimmy can 
answer that: he knows the Volsungs, the race of heroes 
born of Wotan’s infidelities to Fricka, and can tell 
the Wanderer the whole story of the twins and their 
son Siegfried. Wotan compliments him on his know- 
ledge, and asks further with what sword Siegfried will 


52 The Perfect Wagnerite = Act! 


slay Fafnir ? Mimmy can answer that too: he has the 
whole history of the sword at his fingers’ ends. Wotan 
hails him as the knowingest of the knowing, and then 
hurls at him the question he should himself have 
asked: Who will mend the sword? Mimmy, his head 
forfeited, confesses with loud lamentations that he 
cannot answer. The Wanderer reads him an ap- 
propriate little lecture on the folly of being too clever 
to ask what he wants to know, and informs him that 
a smith to whom fear is unknown will mend Nothung 
To this smith he leaves the forfeited head of his host, 
and wanders off into the forest. Then Mimmy’s 
nerves give way completely. He shakes like a man in 
delirium tremens, and has a horrible nightmare, in 
the supreme convulsion of which Siegfried, returning 
from the forest, presently finds him. 

A curious and amusing conversation follows. Sieg- 
fried himself does not know fear, and is impatient to 
acquire it as an accomplishment. Mimmy is all fear: 
the world for him is a phantasmagoria of terrors. It is 
not that he is afraid of being eaten by bears in the 
forest, or of burning his fingers in the forge fire. A 
lively objection to being destroyed or maimed does 
not make a man a coward: on the contrary, it is the 
beginning of a brave man’s wisdom. But in Mimmy, 
fear is not the effect of danger: it is a natural quality 
of him which no security can allay. He is like many a 
poor newspaper editor, who dares not print the truth, 
however simple, even when it is obvious to himself 
and all his readers. Not that anything unpleasant would 
happen to him if he did — not, indeed, that he could 


Act I Siegfried 53 


fail to become a distinguished and influential leader of 
opinion by fearlessly pursuing such a course, but solely 
because he lives in a world of imaginary terrors, rooted 
in a modest and gentlemanly mistrust of his own 
strength and worth, and consequently of the value 
of his opinion. Just so 1s Mimmy afraid of any- 
thing that can do him any good, especially of the 
light and the fresh air. Hes also convinced that any- 
body who is not sufficiently steeped in fear to be con- 
stantly on his guard, must perish immediately on his 
first sally into the world. To preserve Siegfried for the 
enterprise to which he has destined him he makes a 
grotesque attempt to teach him fear. He appeals to his 
experience of the terrors of the forest, of its dark places, 
of its threatening noises, its stealthy ambushes, its sin- 
ister flickering lights, its heart-tightening ecstasies of 
dread. 

All this has no other effect than to fill Siegfried with 
wonder and curiosity ; for the forest 1s a place of de- 
light for him. He is as eager to experience Mimmy’s 
terrors as a schoolboy to feel what an electric shock 
is like. Then Mimmy has the happy idea of describing 
Fafnir to him as a likely person to give him an ex- 
emplary fright. Siegfried jumps at the idea, and, since 
Mimmy cannot mend the sword for him, proposes to 
set to work then and there to mend it for himself. 
Mimmy shakes his head, and bids him see now how 
his youthful laziness and frowardness have found him 
out—how he would not learn the smith’s craft from 
Professor Mimmy, and therefore does not know how 
even to begin mending the sword. Siegfried Bakoonin’s 


54 The Perfect Wagnerite Act Il 


retort is simple and crushing. He points out that the 
net result of Mimmy’s academic skill is that he can 
neither make a decent sword himself nor even set one 
to rights when it is damaged. Reckless of the remon- 
strances of the scandalized professor, he seizes a file, 
and in a few moments utterly destroys the fragments 
of the sword by rasping them into a heap of steel fil- 
ings. Then he puts the filings into a crucible; buries 
it in the coals; and sets to at the bellows with the 
shouting exultation of the anarchist who destroys only 
to clear the ground for creation. When the steel 1s 
melted he runs it into a mould ; and lo! a sword-blade 
in the rough. Mimmy, amazed at the success of this 
violation of all the rules of his craft, hails Siegfried 
as the mightiest of smiths, professing himself barely 
worthy to be his cook and scullion; and forthwith 
proceeds to poison some soup for him so that he may 
murder him safely when Fafnir is slain. Meanwhile 
Siegfried forges and tempers and hammers and rivets, 
uproariously singing the while as nonsensically as the 
Rhine-daughters themselves. Finally he assails the anvil 
on which Mimmy’s swords have been shattered, and 
cleaves it with a mighty stroke of the newly forged 
Nothung. 


The Second Act 


In the darkest hour before the dawn of that night, 
we find ourselves before the cave of Fafnir; and there 
we find Alberic, who can find nothing better to do 
with himself than to watch the haunt of the dragon, 
and eat his heart out in vain longing for the gold and 


Act II Sieffried a 


the ring. The wretched Fafnir, once an honest giant, 
can only make himself terrible enough to keep his gold 
by remaining a venomous reptile. Why he should not 
become an honest giant again, and clear out of his 
cavern, ee the gold and the ring and the rest of 
it for anyone fool enough to take them at such a price, 
is the first question that would occur to anyone except 
a civilized man, who would be too acustomed to that 
sort of mania to be at all surprised at it. 

To Alberic in the night comes the Wanderer, 
whom the dwarf, recognizing his despoiler of old, 
abuses as a shameless thief, taunting him with the help- 
less way in which all his boasted power is tied up with 
the laws and bargains recorded on the haft of his spear, 
which, says Alberic truly, would crumble like chaff in 
his hands if he dared use it for his own real ends. 
Wotan, having already had to kill his own son with it, 
knows that very well; but it troubles him no more; 
for he is now at last rising to abhorrence of his own 
artificial power, and looking to the coming hero, not 
for its consolidation but its destruction. When Alberic 
breaks out again with his still unquenched hope of one 
day destroying the gods and ruling the world through 
the ring, Wotan is no longer shocked. He tells Alberic 
that Brother Mime approaches with a hero whom God- 
head can neither help nor hinder. Alberic may try his luck 
against him without disturbance from Valhalla. Per- 
haps, he suggests, if Alberic warns Fafnir, and offers 
to deal with the hero for him, Fafnir may give him 
the ring. They accordingly wake up the dragon, who 


condescends to enter into bellowing conversation, but 


56 The Perfect Wagnerite Act It 


is proof against their proposition, strong in the magic of 
property.‘ I haveand hold,” hesays: “leave metosleep.” 
Wotan, with a wise laugh, turns to Alberic. ‘“‘ That 
shot missed,’’ he says: “no use abusing me for it. 
And now let me tell you one thing. All things happen 
according to their nature; and you cant alter them.” 
And so he leaves him. Alberic, raging with the sense 
that his old enemy has been laughing at him, and yet 
prophetically convinced that the last word will not 
be with the god, hides himself as the day breaks, and 
his brother approaches with Siegfried. 

Mimmy makes a final attempt to frighten Siegfried 
by discoursing of the dragon’s terrible jaws, poisonous 
breath, corrosive spittle, and deadly, stinging tail. 
Siegfried 1s not interested in the tail : he wants to know 
whether the dragon has a heart, being confident of his 
ability to stick Nothung into it if it exists. Reassured 
on this point, he drives Mimmy away, and stretches 
himself under the trees, listening to the morning chatter 
of the birds. One of them has a great deal to say to 
him ; but he cannot understand it; and after vainly 
trying to carry on the conversation with a reed which 
he cuts, he takes to entertaining the bird with tunes 
on his horn, asking it to send him a loving mate such 
as all the other creatures of the forest have. His tunes 
wake up the dragon ; and Siegfried makes merry over 
the grim mate the bird has sent him. Fafnir is highly 
scandalized by the irreverence of the young Bakoonin. 
He loses his temper ; fights; and is forthwith slain, to 
his own great astonishment. 

In such conflicts one learns to interpret the messages 


Act III Siegfried 57 


of Nature a little. When Siegfried, stung by the dragon’s 
vitriolic blood, pops his finger into his mouth and tastes 
it, he understands what the bird is saying to him, and, 
instructed by it concerning the treasures within his 
reach, goes into the cave to secure the gold, the ring 
and the wishing cap. Then Mimmy returns, and 1s 
confronted by Alberic. The two quarrel furiously over 
the sharing of the booty they have not yet secured, 
until Siegfried comes from the cave with the ring and 
the helmet, not much impressed by the heap of gold, 
and disappointed because he has not yet learned to fear. 

He has, however, learnt to read the thoughts of such 
a creature as poor Mimmy, who, intending to over- 
whelm him with flattery and fondness, only succeeds 
in making such a self-revelation of murderous envy 
that Siegfried smites him with Nothung and slays him, 
to the keen satisfaction of the hidden Alberic. Caring 
nothing for the gold, which he leaves to the care 
of the slain; disappointed in his fancy for learning 
fear; and longing for a mate, he casts himself wearily 
down, and again appeals to his friend the bird, who 
tells him of a woman sleeping on a mountain peak 
within a fortress of fire that only the fearless can pene- 
trate. Siegfried is up in a moment with all the tumult 
of spring in his veins, and follows the flight of the bird 
as it pilots him to the fiery mountain. 


The Third Act 


To the root of the mountain comes also the Wan- 
derer, now nearing his doom. He calls up the First 


58 The Perfect Wagnerite Act IU 


Mother from the depths of the earth, and begs counsel 
from her. She bids him confer with the Norns (the 
Fates). But they are of no use to him: what he seeks 
is some foreknowledge of the way of the Will in its 
perpetual strife with these helpless Fates who can only 
spin the net of circumstance and environment round 
the feet of men. Why not, says Erda then, go to the 
daughter I bore you, and take counsel with her? He 
has to explain how he has cut himself off from her, and 
set the fires of Loki between the world and her counsel. 
In that case the First Mother cannot help him: such 
a separation is part of the bewilderment that is ever the 
first outcome of her eternal work of thrusting the life 
energy of the world to higher and higher organization. 
She can show him no way of escape from the destruc- 
tion he foresees. Then from the innermost of him breaks 
the confession that he rejoices in his doom, and now 
himself exults in passing away with all his ordinances 
and alliances, with the spear-sceptre which he has only 
wielded on condition of slaying his dearest children 
with it, with the kingdom, the power and the glory 
which will never again boast themselves as ‘‘ world 
without end.”” And so he dismisses Eda to her sleep 
in the heart of the earth as the forest bird draws near, 
piloting the slain son’s son to his goal. 

Nowit is anexcellent thing to triumph in the victory 
of the new order and the passing away of the old; but 
if you happen to be part of the old order yourself, 
you must none the less fight for your life. It seems 
hardly possible that the British army at the battle of 
Waterloo did not include at least one Englishman 1n- 


Act III Siegfried 59 


telligent enough to hope, for the sake of his country 
and humanity, that Napoleon might defeat the allied 
sovereigns ; but such an Englishman would kill a 
French cuirassier rather than be killed by him just 
as energetically as the silliest soldier ever encouraged, 
by people who ought to know better, to call his 
ignorance, ferocity and folly, patriotism and duty. 
Outworn life may have become mere error; but it still 
claims the right to die a natural death, and will raise 
its hand against the millennium itself in self-defence 
if it tries to come by the short cut of murder. Wotan 
finds this out when he comes face to face with Sieg- 
fried, who is brought to a standstill at the foot of 
the mountain by the disappearance of the bird. Meet- 
ing the Wanderer there, he asks him the way to 
the mountain where a woman sleeps surrounded by 
fire. The Wanderer questions him, and extracts his 
story from him, breaking into fatherly delight when 
Siegfried, describing the mending of the sword, re- 
marks that all he knew about the business was that 
the broken bits of Nothung would be of no use to 
him unless he made a new sword out of them right over 
again from the beginning. But the Wanderer’s interest 
is by no means reciprocated by Siegfried. His majesty 
and elderly dignity are thrown away on the young 
anarchist, who, unwilling to waste time talking, 
bluntly bids him either show him the way to the 
mountain, or else “shut his muzzle.” Wotan is a 
little hurt. “‘ Patience, my lad,” he says: “if you were 
an old man I should treat you with respect.” ‘That 
would be a precious notion,” says Siegfried. ‘“‘ All my 


60 The Perfect Wagnerite Act III] 


life long I was bothered and hampered by an old man 
until I swept him out of my way. I will sweep you in 
the same fashion if you dont let me pass. Why do 
you wear such a big hat; and what has happened to 
one of your eyes? was it knocked out by somebody 
whose way you obstructed ?”’ To which Wotan replies 
allegorically that the eye that is gone —the eye that 
his marriage with Fricka cost him — is now looking 
at him out of Siegfried’s head. At this, Siegfried gives 
up the Wanderer as a lunatic, and renews his threats 
of personal violence. Then Wotan throws off the 
mask of the Wanderer; uplifts the world-governing 
spear; and puts forth all his divine awe and grandeur as 
the guardian of the mountain, round the crest of which 
the fires of Loki now break into a red background 
for the majesty of the god. But all this is lost on 
Siegfried Bakoonin. ‘‘ Aha!” he cries, as the spear is 
levelled against his breast: ‘I have found my father’s 
foe”; and the spear falls in two pieces under the 
stroke of Nothung. “Up then,” says Wotan: “I 
cannot withhold you,” and disappears forever from 
the eye of man. The fires roll down the mountain; - 
but Siegfried goes at them as exultantly as he went at 
the forging of the sword or the heart of the dragon, 
and shoulders his way through them, joyously sound- 
ing his horn to the accompaniment of their crackling 
and seething. And never a hair of his head is singed. 
Those frightful flames which have scared mankind 
for centuries from the Truth, have not heat enough 
in them to make a child shut its eyes. They are mere 
phantasmagoria, highly creditable to Loki’s imaginative 


Act III Siegfried 61 


stage-management ; but nothing ever has perished or 
will perish eternally in them except the Churches which 
have been so poor and faithless as to trade for their 
power on the lies of a romancer. 


BACK TO OPERA AGAIN 


Anp now, O Nibelungen Spectator, pluck up ; for all 
allegories come to an end somewhere; and the hour 
of your release from these explanations is at hand. 
The rest of what you are going to see is opera, and 
nothing but opera. Before many bars have been played, 
Siegfried and the wakened Brynhild, newly become 
tenor and soprano, will sing a concerted cadenza; 
plunge on from that to a magnificent love duet ; and 
end with a precipitous a/legro a capella, driven head- 
long to its end by the impetuous semiquaver triplets 
of the famous finales to the first act of Don Giovanni 
or the coda to the Leonore overture, with a specifically 
contrapuntal theme, points d’orgue, and a high C for 
the soprano all complete. 

What is more, the work which follows, entitled 
Night Falls on The Gods, is a thorough grand opera. 
In it you shall see what you have so far missed, the 
opera chorus in full parade on the stage, not presum- 
ing to interfere with the prima donna as she sings her 
death song over the footlights. Nay, that chorus will 
have its own chance when it first appears, with a good 
roaring strain in C major, not, after all, so very 
different from, or at all less absurd than the choruses 


atid rn ne, 


62 The Perfect Wagnerite Act III 


of courtiers in La Favorita or “ Per te immenso giu- 
bilo” in Lucia. The harmony is no doubt a little 
developed, Wagner augmenting his fifths with a G 
sharp where Donizetti would have put his fingers in 
his ears and screamed for G natural. But it is an opera 
chorus all the same; and along with it we have 
theatrical grandiosities that recall Meyerbeer and 
Verdi: pezzi d’insieme for all the principals in a row, 
vengeful conjurations for trios of them, romantic death 
song for the tenor: in short, all manner of operatic 
conventions. 

Now it is probable that some of us will have been 
so talked by the more superstitious Bayreuth pilgrims 
into regarding Die Gétterdammerung as the mighty 
climax to a mighty epic, more Wagnerian than all the 
other three sections put together, as not to dare 
notice this startling atavism, especially if we find the 
trio-conjurations more exhilarating than the meta- 
physical discourses of Wotan in the three true music 
dramas of The Ring. There is, however, no real atavism 
involved. Die Gétterdammerung, though the last of 
The Ring dramas in order of performance, was the 
first in order of conception, and was indeed the root 
from which all the others sprang. 

The history of the matter is as follows. All 
Wagner’s works prior to The Ring are operas. The 
last of them, Lohengrin, is perhaps the best known 
of modern operas. As performed in its entirety at 
Bayreuth, it is even more operatic than it appears at 
Covent Garden, because it happens that its most old- 
fashioned features, notably some of the big set con- 


Act III Siegfried 63 


certed pieces for principals and chorus ( pezzi d’insieme 
as I have called them above), are harder to perform 
than the more modernand characteristically Wagnerian 
sections, and for that reason were cut out in prepar- 
ing the abbreviated fashionable version. Thus Lohen- 
grin came upon the ordinary operatic stage as a more 
advanced departure from current operatic models than 
its composer had made it. Still, it is unmistakably an 
opera, with chorus, concerted pieces, grand finales, 
and a heroine who, if she does not sing florid varia- 
tions with flute obbligato, is none the less a very 
perceptible prima donna. In everything but musical 
technique the change from Lohengrin to The Rhine 
Gold is quite revolutionary. 

The explanation is that Night Falls on The Gods 
came in between them, although its music was not 
finished until twenty years after that of The Rhine 
Gold, and thus belongs to a later and more masterful 
phase of Wagner’s harmonic style. It first came into 
Wagner’s head as an opera to be entitled Siegfried’s 
Death, founded on the old Niblung Sagas, which 
offered to Wagner the same material for an effective 
theatrical tragedy as they did to Ibsen. [bsen’s Vikings 
in Helgeland is, in kind, what Siegfried’s Death was 
originally intended to be: that 1s, a heroic piece for the 
theatre, without the metaphysical or allegorical compli- 
cations of The Ring. Indeed, the ultimate catastrophe 
of the Saga cannot by any perversion of ingenuity be 
adapted to the perfectly clear allegorical design of 
The Rhine Gold, The Valkyries, and Siegfried. 


SIEGFRIED AS PROTESTANT 


Tue philosophically fertile element in the original 
project of Siegfried’s Death was the conception of 
Siegfried himself as a type of the healthy man raised 
to perfect confidence in his own impulses by an in- 
tense and joyous vitality which 1s above fear, sickliness 
of conscience, malice, and the makeshifts and moral 
crutches of law and order which accompany them. 
Such a character appears extraordinarily fascinating 
and exhilarating to our guilty and conscience-ridden 
generations, however little they may understand him. 
The world has always delighted in the man who is 
delivered from conscience. From Punch and Don Juan 
down to Robert Macaire, Jeremy Diddler and the 
pantomime clown, he has always drawn large audiences; 
but hitherto he has been decorously given to the devil 
at the end. Indeed eternal punishment is sometimes 
deemed too high a compliment to his nature. When 
the late Lord Lytton, in his Strange Story, introduced 
a character personifying the joyousness of intense 
vitality, he felt bound to deny him the immortal soul 
which was at that time conceded even to the humblest 
characters in fiction, and to accept mischievousness, 


Siegfried as Protestant 65 


cruelty, and utter incapacity for sympathy as the in- 
evitable consequence of his magnificent bodily and 
mental health. 

In short, though men felt all the charm of abound- 
ing life and abandonment to its impulses, they dared 
not, in their deep self-mistrust, conceive it otherwise 
than as a force making for evil—one which must 
lead to universal ruin unless checked and literally 
mortified by self-renunciation in obedience to super- 
human guidance, or at least to some reasoned sys- 
tem of morals. When it became apparent to the 
cleverest of them that no such superhuman guidance 
existed, and that their secularist systems had all the 
fictitiousness of “revelation”’ without its poetry, there 
was no escaping the conclusion that all the good that 
man had done must be put down to his arbitrary will 
as well as all the evil he had done; and it was also 
obvious that if progress were a reality, his beneficent 
impulses must be gaining on his destructive ones. It 
was under the influence of these ideas that we began 
to hear about the joy of life where we had formerly 
heard about the grace of God or the Age of Reason, 
and that the boldest spirits began to raise the question 
whether churches and laws and the like were not doing 
a great deal more harm than good by their action in 
limiting the freedom of the human will. Four hundred 
years ago, when belief in God and in revelation was 
general throughout Europe, a similar wave of thought 
led the strongest-hearted peoples to affirm that every 
man’s private judgment was a more trustworthy in- 
terpreter of God and revelation than the Church. This 


F 


66 The Perfect Wagnerite 


was called Protestantism ; and though the Protestants 
were not strong enough for their creed, and soon set 
up a Church of their own, yet the movement, on the 
whole, has justified the direction it took. Nowadays 
the supernatural element in Protestantism has perished ; 
and if every man’s private judgment is still to be 
justified as the most trustworthy interpreter of the 
will of Humanity (which is not a more extreme pro- 
position than the old one about the will of God) 
Protestantism must take a fresh step in advance, and 
become Anarchism. Which it has accordingly done, 
Anarchism being one of the notable new creeds of the 
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. 

The weak place which experience finds out in the 
Anarchist theory is its reliance on the progress already 
achieved by ‘‘ Man.” There is no such thing as Man 
in the world : what we have to deal with is a multitude 
of men, some of them great rascals, some of them great 
statesmen, others both, with a vast majority capable of 
managing their personal affairs, but not of compre- 
hending social organization, or grappling with the 
problems created by their association in enormous 
numbers. If «‘ Man” means this majority, then “Man”’ 
has made no progress: he has, on the contrary, re- 
sisted it. Fle will not even pay the cost of existing in- 
stitutions: the requisite money has to be filched from 
him by “indirect taxation.” Such people, like Wagner’s 
giants, must be governed by laws; and their assent to 
such government must be secured by deliberately 
filling them with prejudices and practising on their 
imaginations by pageantry and artificial eminences and 


Siegfried as Protestant 67 


dignities. The government is of course established by 
the few who are capable of government, though, its 
mechanism once complete, it may be, and generally 
is, carried on unintelligently by people who are in- 
capable of it, the capable people repairing it from 
time to time when it gets too far behind the continu- 
ous advance or decay of civilization. All these capable 
people are thus in the position of Wotan, forced to 
maintain as sacred, and themselves submit to, laws 
which they privately know to be obsolescent make- 
shifts, and to affect the deepest veneration for creeds 
and ideals which they ridicule among themselves with 
cynical scepticism. No individual Siegfried can rescue 
them from this bondage and hypocrisy; in fact, the 
individual Siegfried has come often enough, only to 
find himself confronted with the alternative of govern- 
ing those who are not Siegfrieds or risking destruction 
at their hands. And this dilemma will persist until 
Wotan’s inspiration comes to our governors, and they 
see that their business is not the devising of laws and 
institutions to prop up the weaknesses of mobs and 
secure the survival of the unfittest, but the breeding 
of men whose wills and intelligences may be depended 
on to produce spontaneously the social wellbeing 
our clumsy laws now aim at and miss. The majority 
of men at present in Europe have no business to be 
alive; and no serious progress will be made until we 
address ourselves earnestly and scientifically to the 
task of producing trustworthy human material for 
society. In short, it is necessary to breed a race of 
men in whom the life-giving impulses predominate, 





68 The Perfect Wagnerite 


before the New Protestantism becomes politically prac- 
ticable.? 

The most inevitable dramatic conception, then, of 
the nineteenth century, 1s that of a perfectly naive 
hero upsetting religion, law and order in all directions, 
and establishing in their place the unfettered action of 
Humanity doing exactly what it likes, and producing 
order instead of confusion thereby because it likes to 
do what is necessary for the good of the race. This 
conception, already incipient in Adam Smith’s Wealth 
of Nations, was certain at last to reach some great 
artist, and be embodied by him in a masterpiece. It 
was also certain that if that master happened to be a 
German, he should take delight in describing his hero 
as the Freewiller of Necessity, thereby beyond measure 
exasperating Englishmen with a congenital incapacity 
for metaphysics. 


PANACEA QUACKERY, OTHERWISE IDEALISM 


Unfortunately, human enlightenment does not pro- 
gress by nicer and nicer adjustments, but by violent 
corrective reactions which invariably send us clean over 
our saddle and would bring us to the ground on the 
other side if the next reaction did not send us back 
again with equally excessive zeal. Ecclestasticism and 
Constitutionalism send us one way, Protestantism and 

1 The necessity for breeding the governing class trom a selected stock has 
always been recognized by Aristocrats, however erroneous their methods of selec- 
tion. We have changed our system from Aristocracy to Democracy without 
considering that we were at the same time changing, as regards our governing 


class, from Selection to Promiscuity, Those who have taken a practical part in 
modern politics best know how farcical the result is, 


Siegfried as Protestant 69 


Anarchism the other ; Order rescues us from confusion 
and lands us in Tyranny ; Liberty then saves the situa- 
tion and is presently found to be as great a nuisance 
as Despotism. A scientifically balanced application of 
these forces, theoretically possible, is practically in- 
compatible with human passion. Besides, we have the 
same weakness in morals as in medicine: we cannot 
be cured of running after panaceas, or, as they are 
called in the sphere of morals, ideals. One generation 
sets up duty, renunciation, self-sacrifice as a panacea. 
The next generation, especially the women, wake up 
at the age of forty or thereabouts to the fact that their 
lives have been wasted in the worship of this ideal, and, 
what is still more aggravating, that the elders who 
imposed it on them did so in a fit of satiety with their 
own experiments in the other direction. Then that de- 
frauded generation foams at the mouth at the very 
mention of duty, and-sets up the alternative panacea 
of love, their deprivation of which seems to them to 
have been the most cruel and mischievous feature of 
their slavery to duty. It is useless to warn them that 
this reaction, if prescribed as a panacea, will prove as 
great a failure as all the other reactions have done; 
for they do not recognize its identity with any reaction 
that ever occurred before. Take for instance the hack- 
neyed historic example of the austerity of the Common- 
wealth being followed by the licence of the Restora- 
tion. You cannot persuade any moral enthusiast to 
accept this as a pure oscillation from action to reaction. 
If he is a Puritan he looks upon the Restoration as a 
national disaster: if he is an artist he regards it as the 


70 The Perfect Wagnerite 


salvation of the country from gloom, devil worship 
and starvation of the affections. The Puritan is ready 
to try the Commonwealth again with a few modern 
improvements: the Amateur is equally ready to try 
the Restoration with modern enlightenments. And so 
for the present we must be content to proceed by re- 
actions, hoping that each will establish some perman- 
ently practical and beneficial reform or moral habit that 
‘ will survive the correction of its excesses by the next 
reaction. 


DRAMATIC ORIGIN OF WOTAN 


Wecan now see how a single drama in which Wotan 
does not appear, and of which Siegfried is the hero, 
expanded itself into a great fourfold drama of which 
Wotan is the hero. You cannot dramatize a reaction 
by personifying the reacting force only, any more than 
Archimedes could lift the world without a fulcrum for 
his lever. You must also personify the established power 
against which the new force is reacting ; and in the con- 
flict between them you get your drama, conflict being 
the essential ingredient in all drama. Siegfried, as the 
hero of Die Gdtterdammerung, is only the primo ten- 
ore robusto of an opera book, deferring his death, after 
he has been stabbed in the last act, to sing rapturous 
love strains to the heroine exactly like Edgardo in 
Donizetti’s Lucia. In order to make him intelligible 
in the wider significance which his joyous, fearless, con- 
scienceless heroism soon assumed in Wagner's imagina- 
tion, it was necessary to provide him with a much 
vaster dramatic antagonist than the operatic villain 


Siegfried as Protestant 71 


Hagen. Hence Wagner had to create Wotan as the 
anvil for Siegfried’s hammer ; and since there was no 
room for Wotan in the original opera book, Wagner 
had to work. back to a preliminary drama reaching 
primarily to the very beginnings of human society. 
And since, on this world-embracing scale, it was clear 
that Siegfried must come into conflict with many baser 
and stupider forces than those lofty ones of super- 
natural religion and political constitutionalism typified 
by Wotan and his wife Fricka, these minor antagon- 
ists had to be dramatized also in the persons of Alberic, 
Mime, Fafnir, Loki, and the rest. None of these appear 
in Night Falls on The Gods save Alberic, whose weird 
dream-colloquy with Hagen, effective as it is, is as 
purely theatrical as the scene of the Ghost in Hamlet, 
or the statue in Don Giovanni. Cut the conference of 
the Norns and the visit of Valtrauta to Brynhild out 
of Night Falls on The Gods, and the drama remains 
coherent and complete without them. Retain them, 
and the play becomes connected by conversational refer- 
ences with the three music dramas; but the connection 
establishes no philosophic coherence, no real identity 
between the operatic Brynhild of the Gibichung episode 
(presently to be related) and the daughter of Wotan 
and the First Mother. 


THE LOVE PANACEA 
We shall now find that at the point where The 


Ring changes from music drama into opera, it also 
ceases to be philosophic, and becomes didactic. The 


72 The Perfect Wagnerite 


philosophic part is a dramatic symbol of the world as 
Wagner observed it. In the didactic part the philosophy 
degenerates into the prescription of a romantic nostrum 
for all human ills. Wagner, only mortal after all, 
succumbed to the panacea mania when his philosophy 
was exhausted, like any of the rest of us. 

The panacea is by no means an original one. Wagner 
was anticipated in the year 1819 by a young country 
gentleman from Sussex named Shelley, in a work of 
extraordinary artistic power and splendor. Prometheus 
Unbound is an English attempt at a Ring; and when 
it is taken into account that the author was only 27, 
whereas Wagner was 40 when he completed the poem 
of The Ring, our vulgar patriotism may find an envious 
satisfaction in insisting upon the comparison. Both 
works set forth the same conflict between humanity 
and its gods and governments, issuing in the redemp- 
tion of man from their tyranny by the growth of his 
will into perfect strength and self-confidence ; and both 
finish by a lapse into panacea-mongering didacticism 
by the holding up of Love as the remedy for all evils 
and the solvent of all social difficulties, 

The differences between Prometheus Unbound and 
The Ring are as interesting as the likenesses. Shelley, 
caught in the pugnacity of his youth and the first im- 
petuosity of his prodigious artistic power by the first 
fierce attack of the New Reformation, gave no quarter 
to the antagonist of his hero. His Wotan, whom he 
calls Jupiter, is the almighty fiend into whom the 
Englishman’s God had degenerated during two cen- 
turies of ignorant Bible worship and shameless com- 


Siegfried as Protestant 7 


mercialism. He is Alberic, Fafnir, Loki and the am- 
bitious side of Wotan all rolled into one melodramatic 
demon who is finally torn from his throne and hurled 
shrieking into the abyss by a spirit representing that 
conception of Eternal Law which has been replaced 
since by the conception of Evolution. Wagner, an 
older, more experienced man than the Shelley of 1819, 
understood Wotan and pardoned him, separating him 
tenderly from all the compromising alliances to which 
Shelley fiercely held him; making the truth and hero- 
ism which overthrow him the children of his inmost 
heart ; and representing him as finally acquiescing in 
and working for his own supersession and annihilation. 
Shelley, in his later works, is seen progressing towards 
the same tolerance, justice, and humility of spirit, as 
he advanced towards the middle age he never reached. 
But there is no progress from Shelley to Wagner as 
regards the panacea, except that in Wagner there is a 
certain shadow of night and death come on it: nay, 
even a clear opinion that the supreme good of love is 
that it so completely satisfies the desire for life, that 
after it the Will to Live ceases to trouble us, and we 
are at last content to achieve the highest happiness of 
death. 

This reduction of the panacea to absurdity was not 
forced upon Shelley, because the love which acts as a 
universal solvent in his Prometheus Unbound is a 
sentiment of affectionate benevolence which has noth- 
ing to do with sexual passion. It might, and in fact does, 
exist in the absence of any sexual interest whatever. 

§ The words mercy and kindness connote it less ambigu- 


74 The Perfect Wagnerite 


ously than the word love. But Wagner sought always 
for some point of contact between his ideas and the 
physical senses, so that people might not only think 
or imagine them in the eighteenth century fashion, but 
see them on the stage, hear them from the orchestra, 
and feel them through the infection of passionate 
emotion. Dr. Johnson kicking the stone to confute 
Berkeley is not more bent on common-sense concrete- 
ness than Wagner: on all occasions he insists on the 
need for sensuous apprehension to give reality to ab- 
stract comprehension, maintaining, in fact, that reality 
has no other meaning. Now he could apply this pro- 
cess to poetic love only by following it back to its 
alleged origin in sexual passion, the emotional pheno- 
mena of which he has expressed in music with a frank- 
ness and forcible naturalism which would possibly have 
scandalized Shelley. The love duet in the first act of 
The Valkyries is brought to a point at which the con- 
ventions of our society demand the precipitate fall of 
the curtain; whilst the prelude to Tristan and Isolde 
is such an astonishingly intense and faithful translation 
into music of the emotions which accompany the union 
of a pair of lovers, that it is questionable whether the 
great popularity of this piece at our orchestral concerts 
really means that our audiences are entirely catholic in 
their respect for life in all its beneficently creative 
functions, or whether they simply enjoy the music with- 
out understanding it. 

But however offensive and inhuman may be the 
superstition which brands such exaltations of natural 
passion as shameful and indecorous, there is at least 


Siegfried as Protestant 75 


as much common sense in disparaging love as in set- 
ting it up as a panacea. Even the mercy and loving- 
kindness of Shelley do not hold good as a universal 
law of conduct : Shelley himself makes extremely short 
work of Jupiter, just as Siegfried does of Fafnir, 
Mime, and Wotan; and the fact that Prometheus is 
saved from doing the destructive part of his work by 
the intervention of that very nebulous personification 
of Eternity called Demogorgon, does not in the least 
save the situation, because, flatly, there is no such 
person as Demogorgon, and if Prometheus does not 
pull down Jupiter himself, no one else will. It would 
be exasperating, if it were not so funny, to see these 
poets leading their heroes through blood and destruc- 
tion to the conclusion that, as Browning’s David puts 
it (David of all people !), “« All’s Love ; yet all’s Law.” 

Certainly it is clear enough that such love as that 
implied by Siegfried’s -first taste of fear as he cuts 
through the mailed coat of the sleeping figure on the 
mountain, and discovers that it is a woman; by her 
fierce revolt against being touched by him when his 
terror gives way to ardor ; by his manly transports of 
victory; and by the womanly mixture of rapture and 
horror with which she abandons herself to the passion 
which has seized on them both, is an experience which 
it is much better, like the vast majority of us, never to 
have passed through, than to allow it to play more 
than a recreative holiday part in our lives. It did not 
play a very large part in Wagner’s own laborious life, 
and does not occupy more than two scenes of The 
Ring. Tristan and Isolde, wholly devoted to it, is a 


76 The Perfect Wagnerite 


poem of destruction and death. The Mastersingers, a 
work full of health, fun and happiness, contains not a 
single bar of love music that can be described as pas- 
sionate: the hero of it is a widower who cobbles shoes, 
writes verses, and contents himself with looking on at 
the sweetheartings of his customers. Parsifal makes an 
end of it altogether. The truth is that the love panacea 
in Night Falls on The Gods and in the last act of Sieg- 
fried is a survival of the first crude operatic conception 
of the story, modified by an anticipation of Wagner’s 
later, though not latest, conception of love as the ful- 
filler of our Will to Live and consequently our recon- 
ciler to night and death. 


NOT LOVE, BUT LIFE 


The only faith which any reasonable disciple can 
gain from The Ring is not in love, but in life itself as 
a tireless power which is continually driving onward 
and upward — not, please observe, being beckoned or 
drawn by Das Ewig Weibliche or any other external 
sentimentality, but growing from within, by its own 
inexplicable energy, into ever higher and higher forms 
of organization, the strengths and the needs of which 
are continually superseding the institutions which were 
made to fit our former requirements. When your 
Bakoonins call out for the demolition of all these 
venerable institutions, there is no need to fly into a 
panic and lock them up in prison whilst your parlia- 
ment is bit by bit doing exactly what they advised 
you to do. When your Siegfrieds melt down the old 


Siegfried as Protestant ao 


weapons into new ones, and with disrespectful words 
chop in twain the antiquated constable’s staves in the 
hands of their elders, the end of the world is no nearer 
than it was before. If human nature, which is the 
highest organization of life reached on this planet, is 
really degenerating, then human society will decay ; 
and no panic-begotten penal measures can possibly save 
it: we must, like Prometheus, set to work to make 
new men instead of vainly torturing old ones. On the 
other hand, if the energy of life is still carrying human 
nature to higher and higher levels, then the more 
young people shock their elders and deride and discard 
their pet institutions the better for the hopes of the 
world, since the apparent growth of anarchy is only 
the measure of the rate of improvement. History, as 
far as we are capable of history (which is not saying 
much as yet), shows that all changes from crudity of 
social organization to complexity, and from mechanical 
agencies in government to living ones, seem anarchic 
at first sight. No doubt it is natural to a snail to think 
that any evolution which threatens to do away with 
shells will result in general death from exposure. 
Nevertheless, the most elaborately housed beings today 
are born not only without houses on their backs but 
without even fur or feathers to clothe them. 


ANARCHISM NO PANACEA 


One word of warning to those who may find 
themselves attracted by Siegfried’s Anarchism, or, if 
they prefer a term with more respectable associations, 


78 The Perfect Wagnerite 


his neo-Protestantism. Anarchism, as a panacea, is 
= as hopeless as any other panacea, and will still 

eso even if we breed a race of perfectly benevolent 
men. It is true that in the sphere of thought, Anarchism 
is an inevitable condition of progressive evolution. A 
nation without Freethinkers — that is, without in- 
tellectual Anarchists — will share the fate of China. 
It is also true that our criminal law, based on a con- 
ception of crime and punishment which is nothing but 
our vindictiveness and cruelty in a virtuous disguise, 
is an unmitigated and abominable nuisance, bound to 
be beaten out of us finally by the mere weight of our 
experience of its evil and uselessness. But it will not 
be replaced by anarchy. Applied to the industrial or 
political machinery of modern society, anarchy must 
always reduce itself speedily to absurdity. Even the 
modified form of anarchy on which modern civiliza- 
tion is based: that is, the abandonment of industry, 
in the name of individual liberty, to the upshot of 
competition for personal gain between private capi- 
talists, is a disastrous failure, and is, by the mere 
necessities of the case, giving way to ordered Socialism. 
For the economic rationale of this, I must refer dis- 
ciples of Siegfried to a tract from my hand published 
by the Fabian Society and entitled The Impossibilities 
of Anarchism, which explains why, owing to the 
physical constitution of our globe, society cannot 
effectively organize the production of its food, clothes 
and housing, nor distribute them fairly and economi- 
cally on any anarchic plan: nay, that without concert- 
ing our social action to a much higher degree than we 


Siegfried as Protestant 79 


do at present we can never get rid of the wasteful and 
iniquitous welter of a little riches and a great deal of 
poverty which current political humbug calls our 
prosperity and civilization. Liberty is an excellent 
thing; but it cannot begin until society has paid its 
daily debt to Nature by first earning its living. There 
is no liberty before that except the liberty to live at 
somebody else’s expense, a liberty much sought after 
nowadays, since it is the criterion of gentility, but not 
wholesome from the point of view of the common 
weal. 


SIEGFRIED CONCLUDED 


In returning now to the adventures of Siegfried 
there is little more to be described except the finale of 
an opera. Siegfried, having passed unharmed through 
the fire, wakes Brynhild and goes through all the 
fancies and ecstasies of love at first sight in a duet which 
ends with an apostrophe to “ leuchtende Liebe, lach- 
ender Tod!”, which has been romantically translated 
into ‘‘ Love that illumines, laughing at death,” whereas 
it really identifies enlightening love and laughing death 
as involving each other so closely as to be virtually one 
and the same thing. 


NIGHT FALLS ON THE GODS 


PROLOGUE 


Diz GOTTERDAMMERUNG begins with an elaborate 
prologue. The three Norns sit in the night on Bryn- 
hild’s mountain top spinning their thread of destiny, 
and telling the story of Wotan’s sacrifice of his eye, and 
of his breaking off a bough from the World Ash to make 
a haft for his spear, also how the tree withered after 
suffering that violence. They have also some fresher 
news to discuss. Wotan, on the breaking of his spear 
by Siegfried, has called all his heroes to cut down the 
withered World Ash and stack its faggots in a mighty 
pyre about Valhalla. Then, with his broken spear in 
his hand, he has seated himself in state in the great 
hall, with the Gods and Heroes assembled about him 
as if in council, solemnly waiting for the end. All this 
belongs to the old legendary materials with which 
Wagner began The Ring. 

The tale is broken by the thread snapping in the 
hands of the third Norn; for the hour has arrived 
when man has taken his destiny in his own hands to 
shape it for himself, and no longer bowsto circumstance, 


ActI Night Falls on The Gods 81 


environment, necessity (which he now freely wills), and 
all the rest of the inevitables. So the Norns recognize 
that the world has no further use for them, and sink 
into the earth to return to the First Mother. Then the 
day dawns; and Siegfried and Brynhild come, and have 
another duet. He gives her his ring; and she gives 
him her horse. Away then he goes in search of more 
adventures; and she watches him from her crag until 
he disappears. The curtain falls; but we can still hear 
the trolling of his horn, and the merry clatter of his 
horse’s shoes trotting gaily down the valley. The 
sound is lost in the grander rhythm of the Rhine as he 
reaches its banks. We hear again an echo of the lament 
of the Rhine maidens for the ravished gold; and then, 
finally, a new strain, which does not surge like the 
mighty flood of the river, but has an unmistakable 
tramp of hardy men and a strong land flavor about 
it. And on this the opera curtain at last goes up — for 
please remember that all that has gone before is only 
the overture. 


The First Act 


We nowunderstand the newtramping strain. Weare 
in the Rhineside hall of the Gibichungs, in the presence of 
King Gunther, his sister Gutrune, and Gunther’s grim 
half brother Hagen, the villain of the piece. Gunther 
is a fool, and has for Hagen’s intelligence the respect 
a fool always has for the brains of a scoundrel. Feebly 
fishing for compliments, he appeals to Hagen to 
pronounce him a fine fellow and a glory to the race 
of Gibich. Hagen declares that it 1s impossible to 

G 


8 2 The Perfect Wagnerite  Actl 


contemplate him without envy, but thinks it a pity 
that he has not yet found a wife glorious enough for 
him. Gunther doubts whether so extraordinary a 
person can possibly exist. Hagen then tells him of 
Brynhild and her rampart of fire; also of Siegfried. 
Gunther takes this rather in bad part, since not only 
is he afraid of the fire, but Siegfried, according to 
Hagen, is not, and will therefore achieve this desirable 
match himself. But Hagen points out that since Sieg- 
fried is riding about in quest of adventures, he will 
certainly pay an early visit to the renowned chief of 
the Gibichungs. They can then give hima philtre which 
will make him fall in love with Gutruna and forget 
every other woman he has yet seen. 

Gunther is transported with admiration of Hagen’s 
cunning when he takes in this plan; and he has hardly 
assented to it when Siegfried, with operatic opportune- 
ness, drops in just as Hagen expected, and is duly 
drugged into the heartiest love for Gutruna and total 
oblivion of Brynhild and his own past. When Gunther 
declares his longing for the bride who lies inaccessible 
within a palisade of flame, Siegfried at once offers to 
undertake the adventure for him, Hagen then explains 
to both of them that Siegfried can, after braving the 
fire, appear to Brynhild in the semblance of Gunther 
through the magic of the wishing cap (or Tarnhelm, 
as it is called throughout The Ring), the use of which 
Siegfried now learns for the first time. It is of course 
part of the bargain that Gunther shall give his sister 
to Siegfried in marriage. On that they swear blood- 
brotherhood ; and at this opportunity the old operatic 


ActI Night Falls on The Gods 83 


leaven breaks out amusingly in Wagner. With tre- 
mendous exordium of brass, the tenor and baritone 
go at it with a will, showing off the power of their 
voices, following each other in canonic imitation, sing- 
ing together in thirds and sixths, and finishing with a 
lurid unison, quite in the manner of Ruy Gomez and 
Ernani, or Othello and Iago. Then without further 
ado Siegfried departs on his expedition, taking Gun- 
ther with him to the foot of the mountain, and leaving 
Hagen to guard the hall and sing a very fine solo 
which has often figured in the programs of the Richter 
concerts, explaining that his interest in the affair is 
that Siegfried will bring back the Ring, and that he, 
Hagen, will presently contrive to possess himself of 
that Ring and become Plutonic master of the world. 

And now it will be asked how does Hagen know 
all about the Plutonic empire; and why was he able 
to tell Gunther about Brynhild and Siegfried, and to 
explain to Siegfried the trick of the Tarnhelm. The 
explanation is that though Hagen’s mother was the 
mother of Gunther, his father was not the illustrious 
Gibich, but no less a person than our old friend Alberic, 
who, like Wotan, has begotten a son to do for him 
what he cannot do for himself. 

In the above incidents, those gentle moralizers who 
find the serious philosophy of the music dramas too 
terrifying for them, may allegorize pleasingly on the 
philtre as the maddening chalice of passion which, 
once tasted, causes the respectable man to forget his 
lawfully wedded wife and plunge into adventures which 
eventually lead him headlong to destruction. 


84. The Perfect Wagnerite = Act] 


We now come upon a last relic of the tragedy 
of Wotan. Returning to Brynhild’s mountain, we find 
her visited by her sister Valkyrie Valtrauta, who has 
witnessed Wotan’s solemn preparations with terror. 
She repeats to Brynhild the account already given by 
the Norns. Clinging in anguish to Wotan’s knees, she 
has heard him mutter that were the ring returned to 
the daughters of the deep Rhine, both Gods and world 
would be redeemed from that stage curse of Alberic’s 
in The Rhine Gold. On this she has rushed on her 
warhorse through the air to beg Brynhild to give the 
Rhine back its ring. But this is asking Woman to 
give up love for the sake of Church and State. She 
declares that she will see them both perish first; and 
Valtrauta returns to Valhalla in despair. Whilst Bryn- 
hild is watching the course of the black thundercloud 
that marks her sister’s flight, the fires of Loki again 
flame high round the mountain; and the horn of 
Siegfried is heard as he makes his way through them. 
But the man who now appears wears the Tarnhelm : 
his voice is a strange voice: his figure is the unknown 
one of the king of the Gibichungs. He tears the ring 
from her finger, and, claiming her as his wife, drives 
her into the cave without pity for her agony of horror, 
and sets Nothung between them in token of his loyalty 
to the friend he is impersonating. No explanation of 
this highway robbery of the ring 1s offered. Clearly, 
this Siegfried is not the Siegfried of the previous 
drama. 


ActII Night Falls on The Gods 85 


The Second Act 


.In the second act we return to the hall of Gibich, 
where Hagen, in the last hours of that night, still sits, 
his spear in his hand, and his shield beside him. At 
his knees crouches a dwarfish spectre, his father 
Alberic, still full of his old grievances against Wotan, 
and urging his son in his dreams to win back the 
ring for him. This Hagen swears to do; and as the 
apparition of his father vanishes, the sun rises and 
Siegfried suddenly comes from the river bank tucking 
into his belt the Tarnhelm, which has transported him 
from the mountain like the enchanted carpet of the 
Arabian tales. He describes his adventures to Gutruna 
until Gunther’s boat is seen approaching, when Hagen 
seizes a cowhorn and calls the tribesmen to welcome 
their chief and his bride. It is most exhilarating, 
this colloquy with the startled and hastily armed clan, 
ending with a thundering chorus, the drums marking 
the time with mighty pulses from dominant to tonic, 
much as Rossini would have made them do if he had 
been a pupil of Beethoven’s. 

A terrible scene follows. Gunther leads his captive 
bride straight into the presence of Siegfried, whom 
she claims as her husband by the ring, which she is 
astonished to see on his finger: Gunther, as she 
supposes, having torn it from her the night before. 
Turning on Gunther, she says, “Since you took that 
ring from me, and married me with it, tell him of 
your right to it; and make him give it back to you.” 
Gunther stammers, “ The ring ! I gave him no ring — 


86 The Perfect Wagnerite Act Il 


er—do you know him?” The rejoinder is obvious. 
‘Then where are you hiding the ring that you had 
from me?” Gunther’s confusion enlightens her; and 
she calls Siegfried trickster and thief to his face. Jn 
vain he declares that he got the ring from no woman, 
but from a dragon whom he slew; for he is manifestly 
puzzled; and she, seizing her opportunity, accuses 
him before the clan of having played Gunther false 
with her. 

Hereupon we have another grandiose operatic oath, ° 
Siegfried attesting his innocence on Hagen’s spear, 
and Brynhild rushing to the footlights and thrusting 
him aside to attest his guilt, whilst the clansmen call 
upon their gods to send down lightnings and silence 
the perjured. The gods do not respond ; and Siegfried, 
after whispering to Gunther that the Tarnhelm seems 
to have been only half effectual after all, laughs his 
way out of the general embarrassment and goes off 
merrily to prepare for his wedding, with his arm 
round Gutruna’s waist, followed by the clan. Gunther, 
Hagen and Brynhild are left together to plot operatic 
vengeance. Brynhild, it appears, has enchanted Sieg- 
fried in such a fashion that no weapon can hurt him. 
She has, however, omitted to protect his back, since 
it is impossible that he should ever turn that toa foe. 
They agree accordingly that on the morrow a great 
hunt shall take place, at which Hagen shall thrust his 
spear into the hero’s vulnerable back. The blame is to 
be laid on the tusk of a wild boar. Gunther, being a 
fool, is remorseful about his oath of blood brother- 
hood and about his sister’s bereavement, without 


ActtII Night Falls on The Gods 87 


having the strength of mind to prevent the murder. 
The three burst into a herculean trio, similar in con- 
ception to that of the three conspirators in Un Ballo 
in Maschera; and the act concludes with a joyous 
strain heralding the appearance of Siegfried’s wedding 
procession, with strewing of flowers, sacrificing to the 
gods, and carrying bride and bridegroom in triumph. 

It will be seen that in this act we have lost all con- 
nection with the earlier drama. Brynhild 1s not only 
not the Brynhild of The Valkyries, she is the Hiordis 
of Ibsen, a majestically savage woman, in whom 
jealousy and revenge are intensified to heroic pro- 
portions. That is the inevitable theatrical treatment of 
the murderous heroine of the Saga. Ibsen’s aim in 
The Vikings was purely theatrical, and not, as in his 
later dramas, also philosophically symbolic. Wagner's 
aim in Siegfried’s Death was equally theatrical, and 
not, as it afterwards became in the dramas of which 
Siegfried’s antagonist Wotan is the hero, likewise 
philosophically symbolic. The two master-dramatists 
therefore produce practically the same version of 
Brynhild. Thus on the second evening of The Ring 
we see Brynhild in the character of the truth-divining 
instinct in religion, cast into an enchanted slumber 
and surrounded by the fires of hell lest she should 
overthrow a Church corrupted by its alliance with 
government. On the fourth evening, we find her 
swearing a malicious lie to gratify her personal jealousy, 
and then plotting a treacherous murder with a fool 
and a scoundrel. In the original draft of Siegfried’s 
Death, the incongruity is carried still further by the 


88 The Perfect Wagnerite ActIl 


conclusion, at which the dead Brynhild, restored to 
her godhead by Wotan, and again a Valkyrie, carries 
the slain Siegfried to Valhalla to live there happily 
ever after with its pious heroes. 

As to Siegfried himself, he talks of women, both in 
this second act and the next, with the air of a man of 
the world. ‘‘ Their tantrums,” he says, “‘ are soon over.” 
Such speeches do not belong to the novice of the pre- 
ceding drama, but to the original Siegfried’s Tod, with 
its leading characters sketched on the ordinary rom- 
antic lines from the old Sagas, and not yet reminted 
as the original creations of Wagner’s genius whose 
acquaintance we have made on the two previous even- 
ings. The very title “Siegfried’s Death” survives as a 
strong theatrical point in the following passage. Gunther, 
in his rage and despair, cries, “Save me, Hagen : save 
my honor and thy mother’s who bore us both.” “‘No- 
thing can save thee,’’ replies Hagen: “neither brain 
nor hand, but Stegfried’s Death.”” And Gunther echoes 
with a shudder, “ Stegfried’s Death!” 


A WAGNERIAN NEWSPAPER CONTROVERSY 


The devotion which Wagner’s work inspires has 
been illustrated lately in a public correspondence on 
this very point. A writer in The Daily Telegraph hay- 
ing commented on the falsehood uttered by Brynhild 
in accusing Siegfried of having betrayed Gunther 
with her, a correspondence in defence of the beloved 
heroine was opened in The Daily Chronicle. The im- 
putation of falsehood to Brynhild was strongly resented 


ActIl Night Falls on The Gods 8g 


and combated, in spite of the unanswerable evidence 
of the text. It was contended that Brynhild’s statement 
must be taken as establishing the fact that she actually 
was ravished by somebody whom she believed to be 
Siegfried, and that since this somebody cannot have 
been Siegfried, he being as incapable of treachery to 
Gunther as she of falsehood, it must have been Gunther 
himself after a second exchange of personalities not 
mentioned in the text. The reply to this — if so ob- 
viously desperate a hypothesis needs a reply — 1s that 
the text is perfectly explicit as to Siegfried, disguised 
as Gunther, passing the night with Brynhild with No- 
thung dividing them, and in the morning bringing her 
down the mountain through the fire (an impassable 
obstacle to Gunther) and there transporting himself in 
a single breath, by the Tarnhelm’s magic, back to the 
hall of the Gibichungs, leaving the real Gunther to 
bring Brynhild down the river after him. One con- 
troversialist actually pleaded for the expedition occupy- 
ing two nights, on the second of which the alleged 
outrage might have taken place. But the time isaccounted 
for to the last minute: it all takes place during the 
single night watch of Hagen. There is no possible way 
out of the plain fact that Brynhild’s accusation 1s to her 
own knowledge false; and the impossible ways just 
cited are only interesting as examples of the fanatical 
worship which Wagner and his creations have been able 
to inspire in minds of exceptional power and culture. 

More plausible was the line taken by those who ad- 
mitted the falsehood. Their contention was that when 
Wotan deprived Brynhild of her Godhead, he also de- 


go The Perfect Wagnerite Act Il 


prived her of her former high moral] attributes ; so 
that Siegfried’s kiss awakened an ordinary mortal jeal- 
ous woman. But a goddess can become mortal and 
jealous without plunging at once into perjury and mur- 
der. Besides, this explanation involves the sacrifice of 
the whole significance of the allegory, and the reduc- 
tion of The Ring to the plane mS a child’s conception 
of The Sleeping Beauty. Whoever does not understand 
that, in terms of The Ring philosophy, a change from 
godhead to humanity is a step higher and not a de- 
gradation, misses the whole point of The Ring. It is 
precisely because the truthfulness of Brynhild is proof 
against Wotan’s spells that he has to contrive the fire 
palisade with Loki, to protect the fictions and conven- 
tions of Valhalla against her. 

The only tolerable view is the one supported by 
the known history of The Ring, and also, for musici- 
ans of sufficiently fine judgment, by the evidence of 
the scores; of which more anon. As a matter of fact 
Wagner began, as I have said, with Siegfried’s Death. 
Then, wanting to develop the idea of Siegfried as neo- 
Protestant, he went on to The Young Siegfried. As a 
Protestant cannot be dramatically projected without a 
pontifical antagonist, The Young Siegfried led to The 
Valkyries, and that again to its preface The Rhine 
Gold (the preface is always written after the book is 
finished). Finally, of course, the whole was revised. 
The revision, if carried out strictly, would have in- 
volved the cutting out of Siegfried’s Death, now become 
inconsistent and superfluous; and that would have in- 
volved, in turn, the facing of the fact that The Ring 


Act Night Falls on The Gods g1 


was no longer a Niblung epic, and really demanded 
modern costumes, tall hats for Tarnhelms, factories for 
Nibelheims, villas for Valhallas, and so on — in short, 
a complete confession of the extent to which the old 
Niblung epic had become the merest pretext and name 
directory in the course of Wagner’s travail. But, as 
Wagner’s most eminent English interpreter once put 
it to me at Bayreuth between the acts of Night Falls on 
The Gods, the master wanted to “‘ Lohengrinize”’ again 
after his long abstention from opera; and Siegfried’s 
Death (first sketched in 1848, the year before the rising in 
Dresden and the subsequent events which so deepened 
Wagner’s sense of life and the seriousness of art) gave 
him exactly the libretto he required for that outbreak of 
the old operatic Adam in him. So he changed it into Die 
Gétterdammerung, retaining the traditional plot of 
murder and jealousy, and with it, necessarily, his orig- 
inal second act, in spite of the incongruity of its Sieg- 
fried and Brynhild with the Siegfried and Brynhild of 
the allegory. As to the legendary matter about the 
world-ash and the destruction of Valhalla by Lok, it 
fitted in well enough; for though, allegorically, the 
blow by which Siegfried breaks the god’s spear is the 
end of Wotan and of Valhalla, those who do not see 
the allegory, and take the story literally, like children, 
are sure to ask what becomes of Wotan after Siegfried 
gets past him up the mountain; and to this question 
the old tale told in Night Falls on The Gods is as good 
an answer as another. The very senselessness of the 
scenes of the Norns and of Valtrauta in relation to the 
three foregoing dramas, gives them a highly effective 


Q2 The Perfect Wagnerite Act III 


air of mystery; and no one ventures to challenge their 
consequentiality, because we are all more apt to pre- 
tend to understand great works of art than to confess 
that the meaning (if any) has escaped us. Valtrauta, 
however, betrays her irrelevance by explaining that the 
gods can be saved by the restoration of the ring to the 
Rhinedaughters. This, considered as part of the previ- 
ous allegory, is nonsense ; so that even this scene, which 
has a more plausible air of organic connection with The 
Valkyries than any other in Night Falls on The Gods, 
is as clearly part of a different and earlier conception 
as the episode which concludes it, in which Siegfried 
actually robs Brynhild of her ring, though he has no 
recollection of having given it to her. Night Falls on 
The Gods, in fact, was not even revised into any real 
coherence with the world-poem which sprang from it; 
and that is the authentic solution of all the contro- 
versies which have arisen over it. 


The Third Act 


The hunting party comes off duly. Siegfried strays 
from it and meets the Rhine Maidens, who almost 
succeed in coaxing the ring from him. He pretends to 
be afraid of his wife; and they chaff him as to her 
beating him and so forth; but when they add that the 
ring is accursed and will bring death upon him, he 
discloses to them, as unconsciously as Julius Cesar dis- 
closed it long ago, that secret of heroism, never to let 
your life be shaped by fear of its end.1 So he keeps the 


1 “ We must learn to die, and to die in the fullest sense of the word. The fea: 
of the end is the source of all lovelessness ; and this fear is generated only when love 


Actlil Night Falls on The Gods 3 


ring ; and they leave him to his fate. The hunting party 
now finds him ; and they all sit down together to make 
a meal by the river side, Siegfried telling them mean- 
while the story of his adventures. When he approaches 
the subject of Brynhild, as to whom his memory is a 
blank, Hagen pours an antidote to the love philtre into 
his drinking horn, whereupon, his memory returning, 
he proceeds to narrate the incident of the fiery moun- 
tain, to Gunther’s intense mortification. Hagen then 
plunges his spear into the back of Siegfried, who falls 
dead on his shield, but gets up again, after the old 
operatic custom, to sing about thirty bars to his love 
before allowing himself to be finally carried off to the 
strains of the famous Trauermarsch. 

The scene then changes to the hall of the Gibichungs 
by the Rhine. It is night; and Gutruna, unable to 
sleep, and haunted by all sorts of vague terrors, is wait- 
ing for thereturn of her husband, and wondering whether 
a ghostly figure she has seen gliding down to the river 
bank is Brynhild, whose room is empty. Then comes 
the cry of Hagen, returning with the hunting party to 
announce the death of Siegfried by the tusk of a wild 
boar. But Gutruna divines the truth ; and Hagen does 
not deny it. Siegfried’s body is brought in; Gunther 
claims the ring ; Hagen will not suffer him to take it; 
they fight ; and Gunther is slain. Hagen then attempts 
to take it; but the dead man’s hand closes on it and 
raises itself threateningly. Then Brynhild comes; and 
begins to wane. How came it that this love, the highest blessedness to all things 
living, was so far lost sight of by the human race that at last it came to this: all 


_ that mankind did, ordered, and established, was conceived only in fear of the end? 
_ My poem sets this forth.’—Wagner to Roeckel, 25th Jan. 1854. 


94 The Perfect Wagnerite Act III 


a funeral pyre is raised whilst she declaims a prolonged 
scena, extremely moving and imposing, but yielding 
nothing to resolute intellectual criticism except a very 
powerful and elevated exploitation of theatrical pathos, 
psychologically identical with the scene of Cleopatra 
and the dead Anthony in Shakespear's tragedy. Finally 
she flings a torch into the pyre, and rides her war- 
horse into the flames. The hall of the Gibichungs catches 
fire, as most halls would were a cremation attempted 
in the middle of the floor (I permit myself this gibe 
purposely to emphasize the excessive artificiality of the 
scene); but the Rhine overflows its banks to allow the 
three Rhine Maidens to take the ring from Siegfried’s 
finger, incidentally extinguishing the conflagration as 
it does so. Hagen attempts to snatch the ring from 
the Maidens, who promptly drown him; and in the 
distant heavens the Gods and their castle areseen perish- 
ing in the fires of Loki as the curtain falls. 


FORGOTTEN ERE FINISHED 


In all this, it will be observed, there is nothing new. 
The musical fabric is enormously elaborate and gorge- 
ous; but you cannot say, as you must 1n witnessing 
the Rhine Gold, The Valkyries, and the first two 
acts of Siegfried, that you have never seen any- 
thing like it before, and that the inspiration is entirely 
original. Not only the action, but most of the poetry, 
might conceivably belong to an Elizabethan drama. 
The situation of Cleopatra and Antony is unconsciously 
reproduced without being bettered, or even equalled 


Act 11 Night Falls on The Gods = g5 


in point of majesty and musical expression. The loss of 
all simplicity and dignity, the impossibility of any cred- 
ible scenic presentation of the incidents, and the ex- 
treme staginess of the conventions by which these im- 
possibilities are got over, are no doubt covered from 
the popular eye by the overwhelming prestige of Die 
Gétterdimmerung as part of so great a work as The 
Ring, and by the extraordinary storm of emotion and 
excitement which the music keeps up. But the very 
qualities that intoxicate the novice in music enlighten 
the adept. In spite of the fulness of the composer’s 
technical accomplishment, the finished style and effort- 
less mastery of harmony and instrumentation displayed, 
there is not a bar in the work which moves us as the 
same themes moved us in The Valkyries, nor is any- 
thing but external splendor added to the life and 
humor of Siegfried. 

In the original poem, Brynhild delays her self- 
immolation on the pyre of Siegfried to read the 
assembled choristers a homily on the efficacy of the 
Love panacea. ‘ My holiest wisdom’s hoard,’’ she says, 
‘now I make known to the world. I believe not in 
property, nor money, nor godliness, nor hearth and 
high place, nor pomp and peerage, nor contract and 
custom, but in Love. Let that only prevail; and ye 
shall be blest in weal or woe.” Here the repudiations 
still smack of Bakoonin; but the saviour is no longer 
the volition of the full-zrown spirit of Man, the Free 
Willer of Necessity, sword in hand, but simply Love, 
and not even Shelleyan love, but vehement sexual 
| passion. It is highly significant of the extent to which 


96 The Perfect Wagnerite Act III 


this uxorious commonplace lost its hold of Wagner 
(after disturbing his conscience, as he confesses to 
Roeckel, for years) that it disappears in the full score of 
Night Fallson The Gods, which was not completed until 
he was on the verge of producing Parsifal, twenty years 
after the publication of the poem. He cut the homily 
out, and composed the music of the final scene with 
a flagrant recklessness of the old intention. The rigor- 
ous logic with which representative musical themes are 
employed in the earlier dramas is here abandoned with- 
out scruple; and for the main theme at the conclusion 
he selects a rapturous passage sung by Sieglinda in the 
third act of The Valkyries (p. 43, ane) when Brynhild 
inspires her with a sense of her high destiny as the 
mother of the unborn hero. There is no dramatic logic 
whatever in the recurrence of this theme to express the 
transport in which Brynhild immolates herself. There 
is of course an excuse for it, inasmuch as both women 
have an impulse of self-sacrifice for the sake of Sieg- 
fried; but this is really hardly more than an excuse; 
since the Valhalla theme might be attached to Alberic 
on the no worse ground that both he and Wotan are 
inspired by ambition, and that the ambition has the 
same object, the possession of the ring. The common 
sense of the matter is that the only themes which had 
fully retained their significance in Wagner’s memory 
at the period of the composition of Night Falls on The 
Gods are those which are mere labels of external feat- 
ures, such as the Dragon, the Fire, the Water and so 
on. This particular theme of Sieglinda’s is, in truth, of 
no great musical merit: it might easily be the pet 


Act 1 Night Falls on The Gods 97 


climax of a popular sentimental ballad: in fact, the 
gushing effect which is its sole valuable quality is so 
cheaply attained that it is hardly going too far to call 
it the most trumpery phrase in the entire tetralogy. 
Yet, since it undoubtedly does gush very emphatically, 
Wagner chose, for convenience’ sake, to work up this 
final scene with it rather than with the more dis- 
tinguished, elaborate and beautiful themes connected 
with the love of Brynhild and Siegfried. 

He would certainly not have thought this a matter 
of no consequence had he finished the whole work ten 
years earlier. It must always be borne in mind that the 
poem of The Ring was complete and printed in 1853, 
and represents the sociological ideas which, after ger- 
minating in the European atmosphere for many years, 
had been brought home to Wagner, who was intensely 
susceptible to such ideas, by the crash of 1849 at 
Dresden. Now no man whose mind is alive and active, 
as Wagner’s was to the day of his death, can keep his 
political and spiritual opinions, much less his philo- 
sophic consciousness, at a standstill for quarter of a 
century until he finishes an orchestral score. When 
Wagener first sketched Night Falls on The Gods he was 
35. When he finished the score for the first Bayreuth 
festival in 1876 he had turned 60. No wonder he had 
lost his old grip of it and left it behind him. He even 
tampered with The Rhine Gold for the sake of theat- 
rical effect when stage-managing it, making Wotan 
pick up and brandish a sword to give visible point to 
his sudden inspiration as to the raising up of a hero. 
The sword had first to be discovered by Fafnir among 

H 


98 The Perfect Wagnerite Act II 


the Niblung treasures and thrown away by him as use- 
less. There is no sense in this device; and its adoptior 
shows the same recklessness as to the original intentior 
which we find in the music of the last act of The Dusk 
of the Gods.’ The Ring was forgotten before it wa: 
finished. Constancy has never been a great man’s virtue 


1 Die Gotterdammerung means literally Godsgloaming. The English version 
of the opera are usually called The Dusk of the Gods, or The Twilight of th 
Gods. I have purposely introduced the ordinary title in the sentence above fo 
the reader’s information. 


WAGNER’S OWN EXPLANATION 


AND now, having given my explanation of The 
Ring, can I give Wagner’s explanation of it? If I could 
(and I can) I should not by any means accept it as 
conclusive. Nearly half a century has passed since the 
tetralogy was written; and in that time the purposes 
of many half instinctive acts of genius have become 
clearer to the common man than they were to the 
doers. Some years ago, in the course of an explanation 
of Ibsen’s plays, I pointed out that it was by no means 
certain or even likely that Ibsen was as definitely con- 
scious of his thesis as I. All the stupid people, and 
some critics who, though not stupid, had not themselves 
written what the Germans call “tendency” works, saw 
nothing in this but a fantastic affectation of the extra- 
vagant self-conceit of knowing more about Ibsen than 
Ibsen himself. Fortunately, in taking exactly the same 
position now with regard to Wagner, I can claim his 
own authority to support me. “ How,” he wrote to 
Roeckel on the 23rd August 1856, ‘‘can an artist ex- 
pect that what he has felt intuitively should be perfectly 
realized by others, seeing that he himself feels in the 
presence of his work, if it is true Art, that he 1s con- 


100 ~=)3>s-" The Perfect Wagnerite 


fronted by a riddle, about which he, too, might have 
illusions, just as another might?” 

The truth is, we are apt to deify men of genius, ex- 
actly as we deify the creative force of the universe, by 
attributing to logical design what is the result of blind 
instinct. What Wagner meant by “true Art” is the 
operation of the artist’s instinct, which is just as blind 
as any other instinct. Mozart, asked for an explanation 
of his works, said frankly “How do I know?” Wag- 
ner, being a philosopher and critic as well as a com- 
poser, was always looking for moral explanations of 
what he had created; and he hit on several very strik- 
ing ones, all different. In the same way one can con- 
ceive Henry the Eighth speculating very brilliantly 
about the circulation of his own blood without getting 
as near the truth as Harvey did long after his death. 

None the less, Wagner’s own explanations are of 
exceptional interest. To begin with, there is a consider- 
able portion of The Ring, especially the portraiture of 
our capitalistic industrial system from the socialist’s 
point of view in the slavery of the Niblungs and the 
tyranny of Alberic, which is unmistakable, as it dra- 
matizes that portion of human activity which lies well 
within the territory covered by our intellectual con- 
sciousness. All this is concrete Home Office business, 
so to speak: its meaning was as clear to Wagner as it 
is to us. Not so that part of the work which deals with 
the destiny of Wotan. And here, as it happened, 
Wagner’s recollection of what he had been driving at 
was completely upset by his discovery, soon after the 
completion of The Ring poem, of Schopenhaur’s 


Wagner’s own Explanation IOI 


famous treatise “The World as Will and Representa- 
tion.”” So obsessed did he become with this masterpiece 
of philosophic art that he declared that it contained 
the intellectual demonstration of the conflict of human 
forces which he himself had demonstrated artistically 
in his great poem. “I must confess,” he writes to 
Roeckel, ‘to having arrived at a clear understanding 
of my own works of art through the help of another, 
who has provided me with the reasoned conceptions 
corresponding to my intuitive principles.” 
Schopenhaur, however, had done nothing of the 
sort. Wagner’s determination to prove that he had 
been a Schopenhaurite all along without knowing it 
only shows how completely the fascination of the great 
treatise on The Will had run away with his memory. 
It is easy to see how this happened. Wagner says of 
himself that ‘seldom has there taken place in the soul 
of one and the same man so profound a division and 
estrangement between the intuitive or impulsive part 
of his nature and his consciously or reasonably formed 
ideas.” And since Schopenhaur’s great contribution to 
modern thought was to educate us into clear conscious- 
ness of this distinction—a distinction familiar, in a 
fanciful way, to the Ages of Faith and Art before the 
Renascence, but afterwards swamped in the Rational~ 
ism of that movement—it was inevitable that Wagner 
should jump at Schopenhaur’s metaphysiology (I use 
a word less likely to be mistaken than metaphysics) as 
the very thing for him. But metaphysiology is one 
thing, political philosophy another. The political philo- 
sophy of Siegfried is exactly contrary to the political 


to2. ‘The Perfect Wagnerite 
philosophy of Schopenhaur, although the same clear 


metaphysiological distinction between the instinctive 
part of man (his Will) and his reasoning faculty 
(dramatized in The Ring as Loki) is insisted on in 
both. The difference is that to Schopenhaur the Will 
is the universal tormentor of man, the author of that 
great evil, Life; whilst reason is the divine gift that is 
finally to overcome this life-creating will and lead, 
through its abnegation, to cessation and peace, anni- 
hilation and Nirvana. This is the doctrine of Pessi- 
mism. Now Wagner was, when he wrote The Ring, a 
most sanguine revolutionary Meliorist, contemptuous 
of the reasoning faculty, which he typified in the 
shifty, unreal, delusive Loki, and full of faith in the 
life-giving Will, which he typified in the glorious 
Siegfried. Not until he read Schopenhaur did he be- 
come bent on proving that he had always been a 
Pessimist at heart, and that Loki was the most sensible 
and worthy adviser of Wotan in The Rhine Gold. 
Sometimes he faces the change in his opinions 
frankly enough. ““My Niblung drama,” he writes to 
Roeckel, ‘‘had taken form at a time when I had built 
up with my reason an optimistic world on Hellenic 
principles, believing that nothing was necessary for the 
realization of such a world but that men should wish 
it. I ingeniously set aside the problem why they did 
not wish it. I remember that it was with this definite 
creative purpose that I conceived the personality of 
Siegfried, with the intention of representing an exist- 
ence free from pain.’ But he appeals to his earlier 
works to show that behind all these artificial optimistic 


Wagner’s own Explanation 103 


ideas there was always with him an intuition of ‘the 
sublime tragedy of renunciation, the negation of the 
will.” In trying to explain this, he is full of ideas 
philosophically, and full of the most amusing contra- 
dictions personally. Optimism, as an accidental excur- 
sion into the barren paths of reason on his own part, 
he calls “‘ Hellenic.” In others he denounces it as rank 
Judaism, the Jew having at that time become for him 
the whipping boy for all modern humanity. In a letter 
from London he expounds Schopenhaur to Roeckel 
with enthusiasm, preaching the renunciation of the 
Will to Live as the redemption from all error and 
vain pursuits: in the next letter he resumes the subject 
with unabated interest, and finishes by mentioning 
that on leaving London he went to Geneva and under- 
went “a most beneficial course of hydropathy.”’ Seven 
months before this he had written as follows: ‘Believe 
me, I too was once possessed by the idea of a country 
life. In order to become a radically healthy human 
being, I went two years ago to a Hydropathic Estab- 
lishment, prepared to give up Art and everything if I 
could once more become a child of Nature. But, my 
good friend, I was obliged to laugh at my own naiveté 
when I found myself almost going mad. None of us 
will reach the promised land: we shall all die in the 
wilderness. Intellect is, as some one has said, a sort of 
disease: it is incurable.”’ 

Roeckel knew his man of old, and evidently pressed 
him for explanations of the inconsistencies of The 
Ring with Night Falls on The Gods. Wagner defended 


himself with unfailing cleverness and occasional petu- 


ee 


104. The Perfect Wagnerite 


lances, ranging from such pleas as “I believe a true 
instinct has kept me from a too great definiteness ; for 
it has been borne in on me that an absolute disclosure 
of the intention disturbs true insight,” to a volley of 
explanations and commentaries on the explanations. 
He gets excited and annoyed because Roeckel will not 
admire the Brynhild of Night Falls on The Gods; re- 
invents the Tarnhelm scene ; and finally, the case being 
desperate, exclaims, “It is wrong of you to challenge 
me to explain it in words: you must feel that some- 
thing is being enacted that is not to be expressed in 
mere words.” 


THE PESSIMIST aS AMORIST 


Sometimes he gets very far away from Pessimism 
indeed, and recommends Roeckel to solace his cap- 
tivity, not by conquering the will to live at liberty, 
but by “the inspiring influences of the Beautiful.” 
The next moment he throws over even Art for Life. 
‘“Where life ends,”’ he says, very wittily, “Art be- 
gins. In youth we turn to Art, we know not why; 
and only when we have gone through with Art and 
come out on the other side, we learn to our cost that 
we have missed Life itself.’’ His only comfort is that 
he is beloved. And on the subject of love he lets him- 
self loose in a manner that would have roused the 
bitterest scorn in Schopenhaur, though, as we have 
| seen (p. 74), it is highly characteristic of Wagner. 
“Love in its most perfect reality,” he says, “is only 

possible between the sexes: it is only as man and 


Wagner’s own Explanation 105 


woman that human beings can truly love. Every other 
manifestation of love can be traced back to that one 
absorbingly real feeling, of which all other affections 
are but an emanation, a connection, or an imitation. 
It is an error to look on this as only one of the forms 
in which love is revealed, as if there were other forms 
coequal with it, or even superior to it. He who after 
the manner of metaphysicians prefers unreality to real- 
ity, and derives the concrete from the abstract—in 
short, puts the word before the fact— may be right in 
esteeming the idea of love as higher than the expres- 
sion of love, and may affirm that actual love made 
manifest in feeling is nothing but the outward and 
visible sign of a pre-existent, non-sensuous, abstract 
love; and he will do well to despise that sensuous 
function in general. In any case it were safe to bet 
that such a man had never loved or been loved as 
human beings can love, or he would have understood 
that in despising this feeling, what he condemned was 
its sensual expression, the outcome of man’s animal 
nature, and not true human love. The highest satis- 
faction and expression of the individual is only to be 
found in his complete absorption, and that is only 
possible through love. Now a human being 1s both 
man and woman: it is only when these two are united 
that the real human being exists; and thus it is only 
by love that man and woman attain to the full measure 
of humanity. But when nowadays we talk of a human 
being, such heartless blockheads are we that quite in- 
voluntarily we only think of man. It is only in the 
union of man and woman by love (sensuous and 


106 The Perfect Wagnerite 


supersensuous) that the human being exists; and as 
the human being cannot rise to the conception of any- 
thing higher than his own existence— his own being — 
so the transcendent act of his life is this consummation 
of his humanity through love.” 

It is clear after this utterance from the would- 
be Schopenhaurian, that Wagner’s explanations of his 
works for the most part explain nothing but the mood 
in which he happened to be on the day he advanced 
them, or the train of thought suggested to his very 
susceptible imagination and active mind by the points 
raised by his questioner. Especially in his private 
letters, where his outpourings are modified by his 
dramatic consciousness of the personality of his corre- 
spondent, do we find him taking all manner of positions, 
and putting forward all sorts of cases which must be 
taken as clever and suggestive special pleadings, and 
not as serious and permanent expositions of his works. 
These works must speak for themselves: if The Ring 
says one thing, and a letter written afterwards says 
that it said something else, The Ring must be taken 
to confute the letter just as conclusively as if the two 
had been written by different hands. However, no- 
body fairly well acquainted with Wagner’s utterances 
as a whole will find any unaccountable contradic- 
tions in them. As in all men of his type, our manifold 
nature was so marked in him that he was like several 
different men rolled into one. When he had exhausted 
himself in the character of the most pugnacious, ag- 
gressive, and sanguine of reformers, he rested. himself 
as a Pessimist and Nirvanist. In The Ring the quietism 


Wagner’s own Explanation 107 


of Brynhild’s “ Rest, rest, thou God” is sublime in 
its deep conviction ; but you have only to turn back 
the pages to find the irrepressible bustle of Siegfried 
and the revelry of the clansmen expressed with equal 
zest. Wagner was not a Schopenhaurite every day in 
the week, nor even a Wagnerite. His mind changes as 
often as his mood. On Monday nothing will ever in- 
duce him to return to quill-driving: on Tuesday he 
begins a new pamphlet. On Wednesday he is im- 
patient of the misapprehensions of people who cannot 
see how impossible itis for him to preside as a conductor 
over platform performances of fragments of his works, 
which can only be understood when presented strictly 
according to his intention on the stage: on Thursday 
he gets up a concert of Wagnerian selections, and 
when it is over writes to his friends describing how 
profoundly both bandsmen and audience were im- 
pressed. On Friday he exults in the self-assertion of 
Siegfried’s will against all moral ordinances, and 1s 
full of a revolutionary sense of ‘the universal law of 
change and renewal”: on Saturday he has an attack 
of holiness, and asks, “‘Can you conceive a moral 
action of which the root idea is not renunciation ?”’ 
In short, Wagner can be quoted against himself al- 
most without limit, much as Beethoven’s adagios could 
be quoted against his scherzos if a dispute arose be- 
tween two fools as to whether he was a melancholy 
man or a merry one. 


THE MUSIC OF THE RING 


THE REPRESENTATIVE THEMES 


To be able to follow the music of The Ring, all 
that is necessary is to become familiar enough with 
the brief musical phrases out of which it is built to 
recognize them and attach a certain definite significance 
to them, exactly as any ordinary Englishman re- 
cognizes and attaches a definite significance to the 
opening bars of God Save the Queen. There is no 
difficulty here: every soldier is expected to learn and 
distinguish between different bugle calls and trumpet 
calls; and anyone who can do this can learn and 
distinguish between the representative themes or “lead- 
ing motives’’ (Leitmotifs) of The Ring. They are 
the easier to learn because they are repeated again and 
again; and the main ones are so emphatically im- 
pressed on the ear whilst the spectator is looking for 
the first time at the objects, or witnessing the first 
strong dramatic expression of the ideas they denote, 
that the requisite association 1s formed unconsciously. 
The themes are neither long, nor complicated, nor 
dificult. Whoever can pick up the flourish of a 
coach-horn, the note of a bird, the rhythm of the post- 


The Music of the Ring 109 


man’s knock or of a horse’s gallop, will be at no 
loss in picking up the themes of The Ring. No 
doubt, when it comes to forming the necessary mental 
association with the theme, it may happen that the 
spectator may find his ear conquering the tune more 
easily than his mind conquers the thought. But for 
the most part the themes do not denote thoughts at 
all, but either emotions of a quite simple universal 
kind, or the sights, sounds and fancies common enough 
to be familiar to children. Indeed some of them are as 
frankly childish as any of the funny little orchestral 
interludes which, in Haydn’s Creation, introduce the 
horse, the deer, or the worm. We have both the horse 
and the worm in ‘The Ring, treated exactly in Haydn’s 
manner, and with an effect not a whit less ridicul- 
ous to superior people who decline to take it good- 
humoredly. Even the complaisance of good Wagner- 
ites is occasionally rather overstrained by the way in 
which Brynhild’s allusions to her charger Grani elicit 
from the band a little rum-ti-tum triplet which by 
itself is in no way suggestive of a horse, although a 
continuous rush of such triplets makes a very exciting 
musical gallop. 

Other themes denote objects which cannot be 
imitatively suggested by music: for instance, music 
cannot suggest a ring, and cannot suggest gold; yet 
each of these has a representative theme which pervades 
the score in all directions. In the case of the gold the 
association is established by the very salient way in 
which the orchestra breaks into the pretty theme in 
the first act of The Rhine Gold at the moment when 


r10.—- The Perfect Wagnerite 


the sunrays strike down through the water and light 
up the glittering treasure, thitherto invisible. The 
reference of the strange little theme of the wishing 
cap is equally manifest from the first, since the 
spectator’s attention is wholly taken up with the 
Tarnhelm and its magic when the theme is first 
pointedly uttered by the orchestra. The sword theme 
is introduced at the end of The Rhine Gold to express 
Wotan’s hero inspiration; and I have already men- 
tioned that Wagner, unable, when it came to practical 
stage management, to forego the appeal to the eye as 
well as to the thought, here made Wotan pick up a 
sword and brandish it, though no such instruction 
appears in the printed score. When this sacrifice to 
Wagner’s scepticism as to the reality of any appeal 
to an audience that is not made through their bodily 
sense is omitted, the association of the theme with the 
sword is not formed until that point in the first act of 
The Valkyries at which Siegmund is left alone by 
Flunding’s hearth, weaponless, with the assurance that 
he will have to fight for his life at dawn with his host. 
He recalls then how his father promised him a sword 
for his hour of need; and as he does so, a flicker from 
the dying fire is caught by the golden hilt of the 
sword in the tree, when the theme immediately begins 
to gleam through the quiver of sound from the 
orchestra, and only dies out as the fire sinks and 
the sword is once more hidden by the darkness. 
Later on, this theme, which is never silent whilst 
Sieglinda is dwelling on the story of the sword, leaps 
out into the most dazzling splendor the band can give 


The Music of the Ring 4.11 


it when Siegmund triumphantly draws the weapon 
from the tree. As it consists of seven notes only, with 
a very marked measure, and a melody like a simple 
flourish on a trumpet or post horn, nobody capable 
of catching a tune can easily miss it. 

The Valhalla theme, sounded with solemn grandeur 
as the home of the gods first appears to us and to 
Wotan at the beginning of the second scene of The 
Rhine Gold, also cannot be mistaken. It, too, has a 
memorable rhythm; and its majestic harmonies, far from 
presenting those novel or curious problems in poly- 
phony of which Wagner still stands suspected by 
superstitious people, are just those three simple chords 
which festive students who vamp accompaniments to 
comic songs “ by ear”’ soon find sufficient for nearly 
all the popular tunes in the world. 

On the other hand, the ring theme, when it begins 
to hurtle through the third scene of The Rhine Gold, 
cannot possibly be referred to any special feature in 
the general gloom and turmoil of the den of the 
dwarfs. It is not a melody, but merely the displaced 
metric accent which musicians call syncopation, rung on 
the notes of the familiar chord formed by piling three 
minor thirds on top of one another (technically, the 
chord of the minor ninth, ct-devant diminished 
seventh). One soon picks it up and identifies it; but 
it does not get introduced in the unequivocally clear 
fashion of the themes described above, or of that 
malignant monstrosity, the theme which denotes the 
curse on the gold. Consequently it cannot be said that 
the musical design of the work is perfectly clear at 


112. The Perfect Wagnerite 


the first hearing as regards all the themes; but it is so 
as regards most of them, the main lines being laid 
down as emphatically and intelligibly as the dramatic 
motives in a Shakespearean play. As to the coyer 
subtleties of the score, their discovery provides fresh 
interest for repeated hearings, giving The Ring a 
Beethovenian inexhaustibility and toughness of wear. 

The themes associated with the individual charac- 
ters get stamped on the memory easily by the simple 
association of the sound of the theme with the appear- 
ance of the person indicated. Its appropriateness is 
generally pretty obvious. Thus, the entry of the 
giants is made to a vigorous stumping, tramping 
measure. Mimmy, being a quaint, weird old creature, 
has a quaint, weird theme of two thin chords that 
creep down eerily one to the other. Gutruna’s theme 
is pretty and caressing: Gunther’s bold, rough, and 
commonplace. It isa favorite trick of Wagner’s, when 
one of his characters is killed on the stage, to make 
the theme attached to that character weaken, fail, and 
fade away with a broken echo into silence. 


THE CHARACTERIZATION 


All this, however, is the mere child’s play of theme 
work. The more complex characters, instead of having 
a simple musical label attached to them, have their 
characteristic ideas and aspirations identified with 
special representative themes as they come into play 
in the drama; and the chief merit of the thematic 
structure of The Ring is the mastery with which the 


The Music of the Ring 113 


dramatic play of the ideas is reflected in the contra- 
puntal play of the themes. We do not find Wotan, 
like the dragon or the horse, or, for the matter of 
that, like the stage demon in Weber’s Freischiitz or 
Meyerbeer’s Robert the Devil, with one fixed theme 
attached to him like a name plate to an umbrella, 
blaring unaltered from the orchestra whenever he steps 
on the stage. Sometimes we have the Valhalla theme 
used to express the greatness of the gods as an idea of 
Wotan’s. Again, we have his spear, the symbol of his 
power, identified with another theme, on which Wagner 
finally exercises his favorite device by making it break 
and fail, cut through, as it were, by the tearing sound 
of the theme identified with the sword, when Sieg- 
fried shivers the spear with the stroke of Nothung. 
Yet another theme connected with Wotan is the 
Wanderer music which breaks with such a majestic 
reassurance on the nightmare terror of Mimmy when 
Wotan appears at the mouth of his cave in the scene 
of the three riddles. Thus not only are there several 
Wotan themes, but each varies in its inflexions and 
shades of tone color according to its dramatic circum- 
stances. So, too, the merry horn tune of the young 
Siegfried changes its measure, loads itself with massive 
harmonies, and becomes an exordium of the most im- 
posing splendor when it heralds his entry as full- 
fledged hero in the prologue to Night Falls on The 
Gods. Even Mimmy has his two or three themes: the 
weird one already described; the little one in triple 
measure imitating the tap of his hammer, and fiercely 
mocked in the savage laugh of Alberic at his death ; 
I 


114 The Perfect Wagnerite 


and finally the crooning tune in which he details all his 
motherly kindnesses to the little foundling Siegfried. 
Besides this there are all manner of little musical 
blinkings and shamblings and whinings, the least hint 
of which from the orchestra at any moment instantly 
brings Mimmy to mind, whether he 1s on the stage at 
the time or not. 

In truth, dramatic characterization in music cannot 
be carried very far by the use of representative themes. 
Mozart, the greatest of all masters of this art, never 
dreamt of employing them; and, extensively as they 
are used in The Ring, they do not enable Wagner to 
dispense with the Mozartian method. Apart from the 
themes, Siegfried and Mimmy are still as sharply dis- 
tinguished from one another by the character of their 
music as Don Giovanni from Leporello, Wotan from 
Gutruna as Sarastro from Papagena. It is true that the 
themes attached to the characters have the same musical 
appropriateness as the rest of the music: for example, 
neither the Valhalla nor the spear themes could, with- 
out the most ludicrous incongruity, be used for the 
forest bird or the unstable, delusive Loki; but for all 
that the musical characterization must be regarded as 
independent of the specific themes, since the entire 
elimination of the thematic system from the score 
would leave the characters as well distinguished music- 
ally as they are at present. 

One more illustration of the way in which the the- 
matic system is worked. There are two themes con- 
nected with Loki. One is a rapid, sinuous, twisting, 
shifty semiquaver figure suggested by the unsubstan- 


The Music of the Ring = 115 


tial, elusive logic-spinning of the clever one’s brain- 
craft. The other is the fire theme. In the first act of 
Siegfried, Mimmy makes his unavailing attempt to 
explain fear to Siegfried. With the horror fresh upon 
him of the sort of nightmare into which he has fallen 
after the departure of the Wanderer, and which has 
taken the form, at once fanciful and symbolic, of a 
delirious dread of light, he asks Siegfried whether 
he has never, whilst wandering in the forest, had his 
heart set hammering in frantic dread by the mysteri- 
ous lights of the gloaming. To this, Siegfried, greatly 
astonished, replies that on such occasions his heart is 
altogether healthy and his sensations perfectly normal. 
Here Mimmy’s question is accompanied by the tremu- 
lous sounding of the fire theme with its harmonies 
most oppressively disturbed and troubled; whereas 
with Siegfried’s reply they become quite clear and 
straightforward, making the theme sound bold, bril- 
liant, and serene. This is a typical instance of the way 
in which the themes are used. 

The thematic system gives symphonic interest, 
reasonableness, and unity to the music, enabling the 
composer to exhaust every aspect and quality of his 
melodic material, and, in Beethoven’s manner, to work 
miracles of beauty, expression and significance with 
the briefest phrases. As a set-off against this, it has 
led Wagner to indulge in repetitions that would be 
intolerable in a purely dramatic work. Almost the 
first thing that a dramatist has to learn in constructing 
a play is that the persons must not come on the stage 
in the second act and tell one another at great length 


116 The Perfect Wagnerite 


what the audience has already seen pass before its eyes 
in the first act. The extent to which Wagner has been 
seduced into violating this rule by his affection for his 
themes is startling to a practised playwright. Siegfried 
inherits from Wotan a mania for autobiography which 
leads him to inflict on everyone he meets the story of 
Mimmy and the dragon, although the audience have 
spent a whole evening witnessing the events he is 
narrating. Hagen tells the story to Gunther; and 
that same night Alberic’s ghost tells it over again to 
Hagen, who knows it already as well as the audience. 
Siegfried tells the Rhinemaidens as much of it as they 
will listen to, and then keeps telling it to his hunting 
companions until they kill him. Wotan’s autobiography 
on the second evening becomes his biography in the 
mouths of the Norns on the fourth. The little that the 
Norns add to it is repeated an hour later by Valtrauta. 
How far all this repetition is tolerable is a matter of 
individual taste. A good story will bear repetition ; 
and if it has woven into it such pretty tunes as the 
Rhinemaidens’ yodel, Mimmy’s tinkling anvil beat, 
the note of the forest bird, the call of Siegfried’s horn, 
and so on, it will bear a good deal of rehearing. Those 
who have but newly learnt their way through The 
Ring will not readily admit that there is a bar too 
much repetition. 

But howif you find someanti-Wagnerite raising the 
question whether the thematic system does not enable 
the composer to produce a music drama with much less 
musical fertility than was required from his predecessors 
for the composition of operas under the old system ! 


The Music of the Ring ==117 


Such discussions are not within the scope of this 
little book. But as the book is now finished (for really 
nothing more need be said about The Ring), I am 
quite willing to add a few pages of ordinary musical 
criticism, partly to please the amateurs who enjoy 
that sort of reading, and partly for the guidance of 
those who wish to obtain some hints to help them 
through such critical small talk about Wagner and 
Bayreuth as may be forced upon them at the dinner 
table or between the acts. 


THE OLD AND THE NEW MUSIC 


In the old-fashioned opera every separate number 
involved the composition of a fresh melody ; but it is 
quite a mistake to suppose that this creative effort 
extended continuously throughout the number from 
the first to the last bar. When a musician composes 
according to a set metrical pattern, the selection of the 
pattern and the composition of the first stave (a stave 
in music corresponds to a line in verse) generally 
completes the creative effort. All the rest follows more 
or less mechanically to fill up the pattern, an air being 
very like a wall-paper design in this respect. Thus the 
second stave is usually a perfectly obvious consequence 
of the first; and the third and fourth an exact or very 
slightly varied repetition of the first and second. For 
example, given the first line of Pop Goes the Weasel 
or Yankee Doodle, any musical cobbler could supply 
the remaining three. There is very little tune turning 
of this kind in The Ring; and it is noteworthy that 
where it does occur, as in Siegmund’s spring song and 
Mimmy’s croon, “ Ein zullendes Kind,” the effect of 
the symmetrical staves, recurring as a mere matter of 


The Old and the New Music 119 


form, is perceptibly poor and platitudinous compared 
with the free flow of melody which prevails else- 
where. 

The other and harder way of composing is to take a 
strain of free melody, and ring every variety of change 
of mood upon it as if it were a thought that some- 
times brought hope, sometimes melancholy, sometimes 
exultation, sometimes raging despair and so on. To 
take several themes of this kind, and weave them to- 
gether into a rich musical fabric passing panoramically 
before the ear with a continually varying flow of 
sentiment, is the highest feat of the musician: it is in 
this way that we get the fugue of Bach and the sym- 
phony of Beethoven. The admittedly inferior musician 
is the one who, like Auber and Offenbach, not to 
mention our purveyors of drawingroom ballads, can 
produce an unlimited quantity of symmetrical tunes, 
but cannot weave themes symphonically. 

When this is taken into account, it will be seen 
that the fact that there is a great deal of repetition in 
The Ring does not distinguish it from the old-fashioned 
operas. The real difference is that in them the repett- 
tion was used for the mechanical completion of con- 
ventional metric patterns, whereas in The Ring the re- 
currence of the theme is an intelligent and interesting 
consequence of the recurrence of the dramatic phen- 
omenon which it denotes. It should be remembered 
also that the substitution of symphonically treated 
themes for tunes with symmetrical eight-bar staves 
and the like, has always been the rule in the highest 
forms of music. To describe it, or be affected by it, 


120 6 The Perfect Wagnerite 


as an abandonment of melody, is to confess oneself 
an ignoramus conversant only with dance tunes and 
ballads. 

The sort of stuff a purely dramatic musician pro- 
duces when he hampers himself with metric patterns 
in composition is not unlike what might have resulted 
in literature if Carlyle (for example) had been com- 
pelled by convention to write his historical stories in 
rhymed stanzas. That is to say, it limits his fertility to 
an occasional phrase, and three quarters of the time 
exercises only his barren ingenuity in fitting rhymes 
and measures to it. In literature the great masters of 
the art have long emancipated themselves from metric 
patterns. Nobody claims that the hierarchy of modern 
impassioned prose writers, from Bunyan to Ruskin, 
should be placed below the writers of pretty lyrics, 
from Herrick to Mr Austin Dobson. Only in dramatic 
literature do we find the devastating tradition of blank 
verse still lingering, giving factitious prestige to the 
platitudes of dullards, and robbing the dramatic style 
of the genuine poet of its full natural endowment of 
variety, force and simplicity. 

This state of things, as we have seen, finds its par- 
allel in musical art, since music can be written in prose 
themes or in versified tunes; only here nobody dreams 
of disputing the greater difficulty of the prose forms, 
and the comparative triviality of versification. Yet in 
dramatic music, as in dramatic literature, the tradition 
of versification clings with the same pernicious results ; 
and the opera, like the tragedy, 1s conventionally made 
like a wall paper. The theatre seems doomed to be in 


The Old and the New Music 121 


all things the last refuge of the hankering after cheap 
prettiness in art. 

Unfortunately this confusion of the decorative with 
the dramatic element in both literature and music is 
maintained by the example of great masters in both 
arts. Very touching dramatic expression can be com- 
bined with decorative symmetry of versification when 
the artist happens to possess both the decorative and 
dramatic gifts, and to have cultivated both hand in 
hand. Shakespear and Shelley, for instance, far from 
being hampered by the conventional obligation to write 
their dramas in verse, found it much the easiest and 
cheapest way of producing them. But if Shakespear had 
been compelled by custom to write entirely in prose, 
all his ordinary dialogue might have been as good as 
the first scene of As You Like It; and all his lofty 
passages as fine as “‘ What a piece of work is Man!”, 
thus sparing us a great deal of blank verse in which 
the thought is commonplace, and the expression, though 
catchingly turned, absurdly pompous. The Cenci might 
either have been a serious drama or might never have 
been written at all ifShelley had not been allowed to carry 
offits unreality by Elizabethan versification. Still, both 
poets have achieved many passages in which the decora- 
tive and dramatic qualities are not only reconciled, but 
seem to enhance one another to a pitch otherwise un- 
attainable. 

Just so in music. When we find, as in the case of 
Mozart, a prodigiously gifted and arduously trained 
musician who is also, by a happy accident, a dramatist 
comparable to Moliére, the obligation to compose 


122 The Perfect Wagnerite 


operas in versified numbers not only does not embarrass 
him, but actually saves him trouble and thought. No 
matter what his dramatic mood may be, he expresses 
it in exquisite musical verses more easily than a drama- 
tist of ordinary singleness of talent can express it in 
prose. Accordingly, he too, like Shakespear and Shelley, 
leaves versified airs, like Dalla sua pace, or Gluck’s 
Che faro senza Euridice, or Weber’s Leise, leise, which 
are as dramatic from the first note to the last as the 
untrammelled themes of The Ring. In consequence, it 
used to be professorially demanded that all dramatic 
music should present the same double aspect. The de- 
mand was unreasonable, since symmetrical versification 
is no merit in dramatic music: one might as well stipu- 
late that a dinner fork should be constructed so as to 
serve also as a tablecloth. It was an ignorant de- 
mand too, because it is not true that the composers of 
these exceptional examples were always, or even often, 
able to combine dramatic expression with symmetrical 
versification. Side by side with Dalla sua pace we have 
Il mio tesoro and Non mi dir, in which exquisitely ex- 
pressive opening phrases lead to decorative passages 
which are as grotesque from the dramatic point of view 
as the music which Alberic sings when he is slipping 
and sneezing in the Rhine mud is from the decorative 
point of view. Further, there is to be considered the 
mass of shapeless ‘“‘dry recitative’’ which separates these 
symmetrical numbers, and which might have been raised 
to considerable dramatic and musical importance had 
it been incorporated into a continuous musical fabric by 
thematic treatment. Finally, Mozart’s most dramatic 


The Old and the New Music 123 


finales and concerted numbers are more or less in son- 
ata form, like symphonic movements, and must there- 
fore be classed as musical prose. And sonata form dic- 
tates repetitions and recapitulations from which the 
perfectly unconventional form adopted by Wagner is 
free. On the whole, there is more scope for both repeti- 
tion and convention in the old form than in the new; 
and the poorer a composer’s musical gift is, the surer 
he is to resort to the eighteenth century patterns to 
eke out his invention. 


THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 


Wuen Wagner was born in 1813, music had newly 
become the most astonishing, the most fascinating, the 
most miraculous art in the world. Mozart’s Don Gio- 
vanni had made all musical Europe conscious of the 
enchantments of the modern orchestra and of the per- 
fect adaptability of music to the subtlest needs of the 
dramatist. Beethoven had shown how those inarticulate 
mood-poems which surge through men who have, like 
himself, no exceptional command of words, can be 
written down in music as symphonies. Not that Mozart 
and Beethoven invented these applications of their art ; 
but they were the first whose works made it clear that 
the dramatic and subjective powers of sound were en- 
thralling enough to stand by themselves quite apart 
from the decorative musical structures of which they 
had hitherto been a mere feature. After the finales in 
Figaro and Don Giovanni, the possibility of the modern 
music drama lay bare. After the symphonies of Beet- 
hoven it was certain that the poetry that lies too deep 
for words does not lie too deep for music, and that 
the vicissitudes of the soul, from the roughest fun to 
the loftiest aspiration, can make symphonies without 


The Nineteenth Century 125 


the aid of dance tunes. As much, perhaps, will be claimed 
for the preludes and fugues of Bach ; but Bach’s method 
was unattainable: his compositions were wonderful 
webs of exquisitely beautiful Gothic traceries in sound, 
quite beyond all ordinary human talent. Beethoven’s 
far blunter craft was thoroughly popular and practic- 
able: not to save his soul could he have drawn one 
long Gothic line in sound as Bach could, much less 
have woven several of them together with so apt a 
harmony that even when the composer is unmoved 
its progressions saturate themselves with the emotion 
which (as modern criticsarea little apt to forget) springs 
as warmly from our delicately touched admiration as 
from our sympathies, and sometimes makes us give 
a composer credit for pathetic intentions which he does 
not entertain, just as a boy imagines atreasure of tender- 
ness and noble wisdom in the beauty of a woman. Be- 
sides, Bach set comic dialogue to music exactly as he 
set the recitatives of the Passion, there being for him, 
apparently, only one recitative posgible, and that the 
musically best. He reserved the expression of his merry 
mood for the regular set numbers in which he could 
make one of his wonderful contrapuntal traceries of 
pure ornament with the requisite gaiety of line and 
movement. Beethoven bowed to no ideal of beauty: 
he only sought the expression for his feeling. To him 
a joke was a joke; and if it sounded funny in music 
he was satisfied. Until the old habit of judging all music 
by its decorative symmetry had worn out, musicians 
were shocked by his symphonies, and, misunderstand- 
ing his integrity, openly questioned his sanity. But to 


XY & 


126 The Perfect Wagnerite 


those who were not looking for pretty new sound 
patterns, but were longing for the expression of their 
moods in music, he achieved a revelation, because, being 
single in his aim to express his own moods, he antici- 
pated with revolutionary courage and frankness all the 
moods of the rising generations of the nineteenth cen- 
tury. 

The result was inevitable. In the nineteenth century 
it was no longer necessary to be a born pattern designer 
in sound to be a composer. One had but to be a drama- 
tist or a poet completely susceptible to the dramatic 
and descriptive powers of sound. A race of literary 
and theatrical musicians appeared ; and Meyerbeer, 
the first of them, made an extraordinary impression. 
The frankly delirious description of his Robert the 
Devil in Balzac’s short story entitled Gambara, and 
Goethe’s astonishingly mistaken notion that he could 
have composed music for Faust, show how completely 
the enchantments of the new dramatic music upset the 
judgment of artists of eminent discernment. Meyer- 
beer was, people said (old gentlemen still say so in 
Paris), the successor of Beethoven: he was, if a less 
perfect musician than Mozart, a profounder genius. 
Above all, he was original and daring. Wagner him- 
self raved about the duet in the fourth act of Les. 
Huguenots as wildly as anyone. 

Yet all this effect of originality and profundity was 
produced by a quite limited talent for turning striking 
phrases, exploiting certain curious and rather catching 
rhythms and modulations, and devising suggestive or 
eccentric instrumentation. On its decorative side, it 


The Nineteenth Century 127 


was the same phenomenon in music as the Baroque 
school in architecture: an energetic struggle to en- 
liven organic decay by mechanical oddities and 
novelties. Meyerbeer was no symphonist. He could 
not apply the thematic system to his striking phrases, 
and so had to cobble them into metric patterns 
in the old style; and as he was no “absolute 
musician’”’ either, he hardly got his metric patterns 
beyond mere quadrille tunes, which were either wholly 
undistinguished, or else made remarkable by certain 
brusqueries which, in the true rococo manner, owed 
their singularity to their senselessness. He could pro- 
duce neither a thorough music drama nor a charming 
opera. But with all this, and worse, Meyerbeer had some 
genuine dramatic energy, and even passion ; and some- 
times rose to the occasion in a manner which, whilst 
the imagination of his contemporaries remained on fire 
with the novelties of dramatic music, led them to over- 
rate him with an extravagance which provoked Wagner 
to conduct a long critical campaign against his leader- 
ship. Thirty years ago this campaign was inevitably 
ascribed to the professional jealousy of a disappointed 
rival. Nowadays young people cannot understand how 
anyone could ever have taken Meyerbeer’s influence 
seriously. Those who remember how his reputation 
stood half a century ago, and who realize what a no- 
thoroughfare the path he opened proved to be, even 
to himself, know how inevitable and how impersonal 
Wagner’s attack was. 

Wagner was the literary musician par excellence. 
He could not, like Mozart and Beethoven, produce 


128 The Perfect Wagnerite 


decorative tone structures independently of any dram- 
atic or poetic subject matter, because, that craft being 
no longer necessary for his purpose, he did not cultivate 
it. As Shakespear, compared with Tennyson, appears 
to have an exclusively dramatic talent, so exactly does 
Wagner compared with Mendelssohn. On the other 
hand, he had not to go to third rate literary hacks for 
“librettos’” to set to music: he produced his own 
dramatic poems, thus giving dramatic integrity to opera, 
and making symphony articulate. A Beethoven sym- 
phony (except the articulate part of the ninth) expresses 
noble feeling, but not thought: it has moods, but no 
ideas. Wagner added thought and produced the music 
drama. Mozart’s loftiest opera, his Ring, so to speak, 
The Magic Flute, has a libretto which, though none 
the worse for seeming, like The Rhine Gold, the mer- 
est Christmas tomfoolery to shallow spectators, is the 
product of a talent immeasurably inferior to Mozart’s 
own. The libretto of Don Giovanni is coarse and tri- 
vial: its transfiguration by Mozart’s music may be a 
marvel; but nobody will venture to contend that such 
transfigurations, however seductive, can be as satis- 
factory as tone poetry or drama in which the musician 
and the poet are at the same level. Here, then, we have 
the simple secret of Wagner’s pre-eminence as a dram- 
atic musician. He wrote the poems as well as composed 
the music of his “stage festival plays,” as he called 
them. 

Up to a certain point in his career Wagner paid 
the penalty of undertaking two arts instead of one. 
Mozart had his trade as a musician at his fingers’ 


— 


The Nineteenth Century 129 


ends when he was twenty, because he had served an 
arduous apprenticeship to that trade and no other. 
Wagner was very far from having attained equal 
mastery at thirty-five: indeed he himself has told us 
that not until he had passed the age at which Mozart 
died did he compose with that complete spontaneity 
of musical expression which can only be attained by 
winning entire freedom from all preoccupation with 
the difficulties of technical processes. But when that 
time came, he was not only a consummate musician, 
like Mozart, but a dramatic poet and a critical and 
philosophical essayist, exercising a considerable influ- 
ence on his century. The sign of this consummation 
was his ability at last to play with his art, and thus to 
add to his already famous achievements in sentimental 
drama that lighthearted art of comedy of which the 
greatest masters, like Moliére and Mozart, are so 
much rarer than the tragedians and sentimentalists. 
It was then that he composed the first two acts of Sieg- 
fried, and later on The Mastersingers, a professedly 
comedic work, and a quite Mozartian garden of 
melody, hardly credible as the work of the strain- 
ing artificer of Tannhauser. Only, as no man ever 
learns to do one thing by doing something else, how- 
ever Closely allied the two things may be, Wagner 
still produced no music independently of his poems. 
The overture to The Mastersingers is delightful when 
you know what it is all about; but only those to 
whom it came as a concert piece without any such 
clue, and who judged its reckless counterpoint by the 
standard of Bach and of Mozart’s Magic Flute over- 
K 


130 ©3> The Perfect Wagnerite 


ture, can realize how atrocious it used to sound to 
musicians of the old school. When I first heard it, 
with the clear march of the polyphony in Bach’s B 
minor Mass fresh in my memory,'I confess I thought 
that the parts had got dislocated, and that some of 
the band were half a bar behind the others. Perhaps 
they were; but now that I am familiar with the work, 
and with Wagner’s harmony, | can still quite under- 
stand certain passages producing that effect on an ad- 
mirer of Bach even when performed with perfect 
accuracy. 


THE MUSIC OF THE FUTURE 


Tuer success of Wagner has been so prodigious 
that to his dazzled disciples it seems that the age of 
what he called ‘‘absolute”” music must be at an end, and 
the musical future destined to be an exclusively Wag- 
nerian one inaugurated at Bayreuth. All great geniuses 
produce this illusion. Wagner did not begin a move- 
ment: he consummated it. He was the summit of the 
nineteenth century school of dramatic music in the 
same sense as Mozart .was the summit (the word is 
Gounod’s) of the eighteenth century school. And 
those who attempt to carry on his Bayreuth tradition 
will assuredly share the fate of the forgotten purveyors 
of second hand Mozart a hundred years ago. As to 
the expected supersession of absolute music, it is suffi- 
cient to point to the fact that Germany produced two 
absolute musicians of the first class during Wagner’s 
lifetime: one, the greatly gifted Goetz, who died 
young; the other, Brahms, whose absolute musical 
endowment was as extraordinary as his thought 
was commonplace. Wagner had for him the con- 
tempt of the original thinker for the man of second 
hand ideas, and of the strenuously dramatic mu- 


132 The Perfect Wagnerite 


sician for mere brute musical faculty; but though 
his contempt was perhaps deserved by the Triumph- 
lieds, and Schicksalslieds, and Elegies and Requiems 
in which Brahms took his brains so seriously, nobody 
can listen to Brahms’ natural utterance of the richest 
absolute music, especially in his chamber compositions, 
without rejoicing in his amazing gift. A reaction to 
absolute music, starting partly from Brahms, and 
partly from such revivals of medieval music as those 
of De Lange in Holland and Mr Arnold Dolmetsch 
in England, is both likely and promising; whereas 
there is no more hope in attempts to out-Wagner 
Wagner in music drama than there was in the old 
attempts—or for the matter of that, the new ones— 
to make Handel the saniEne point of a great school 
of oratorio. 


BAYREUTH 


Wuen the Bayreuth Festival Playhouse was at last 
completed, and opened in 1876 with the first per- 
formance of The Ring, European society was com- 
pelled to admit that Wagner was “a success.” Royal 
personages, detesting his music, sat out the perform- 
ances in the row of boxes set apart for princes. They 
all complimented him on the astonishing ‘‘push”’ with 
which, in the teeth of all obstacles, he had turned a 
fabulous and visionary-project into a concrete com- 
mercial reality, patronized by the public at a pound a 
head. It is as well to know that these congratulations 
had no other effect upon Wagner than to open his 
eyes to the fact that the Bayreuth experiment, as an 
attempt to evade the ordinary social and commercial 
conditions of theatrical enterprise, was a failure. His 
own account of it contrasts the reality with his inten- 
tions in a vein which would be bitter if it were not so 
humorous. The precautions taken to keep the seats 
out of the hands of the frivolous public and in the 
hands of earnest disciples, banded together in little 
Wagner Societies throughout Europe, had ended in 
their forestalling by ticket speculators and their sale 


134 The Perfect Wagnerite 


to just the sort of idle globe-trotting tourists against 
whom the temple was to have been strictly closed. 
The money, supposed to be contributed by the faith- 
ful, was begged by energetic subscription-hunting 
ladies from people who must have had the most gro- 
tesque misconceptions of the composer’s aims — among 
others, the Khedive of Egypt and the Sultan of Turkey! 

The only change that has occurred since then 1s 
that subscriptions are no longer needed; for the 
Festival Playhouse apparently pays its own way now, 
and is commercially on the same footing as any other 
theatre. The only qualification required from the 
visitor is money. A Londoner spends twenty pounds 
on a visit: a native Bayreuther spends one pound. In 
either case ‘‘the Folk,” on whose behalf Wagner turned 
out in 1849, are effectually excluded ; and the Festival 
Playhouse must therefore be classed as infinitely less 
Wagnerian in its character than Hampton Court 
Palace. Nobody knew this better than Wagner; and 
nothing can be further off the mark than to chatter about 
Bayreuth as if it had succeeded in escaping from the 
conditions of our modern civilization any more than 
the Grand Opera in Paris or London. 

Within these conditions, however, it effected a new 
departure in that excellent German institution, the 
summer theatre. Unlike our opera houses, which are 
constructed so that the audience may present a splen- 
did pageant to the delighted manager, it is designed 
to secure an uninterrupted view of the stage, and an 
undisturbed hearing of the music, to the audience. 
The dramatic purpose of the performances is taken 


Bayreuth Sl 5 


with entire and elaborate seriousness as the sole pur- 
pose of them; and the management is jealous for the 
reputation of Wagner. The commercial success which 
has followed this policy shows that the public wants 
summer theatres of the highest class. There is no 
reason why the experiment should not be tried in 
England. If our enthusiasm for Handel can support 
Handel Festivals, laughably dull, stupid and anti- 
Handelian as these choral monstrosities are, as well as 
annual provincial festivals on the same model, there is 
no likelihood of a Wagner Festival failing. Suppose, 
for instance, a Wagner theatre were built at Hampton 
Court or on Richmond Hill, not to say Margate pier, 
so that we could have a delightful summer evening 
holiday, Bayreuth fashion, passing the hours between 
the acts in the park or on the river before sunset, is it 
seriously contended that there would be any lack of 
visitors? If a little of the money that is wasted on 
grand stands, Eiffel towers, and dismal Halls by the 
Sea, all as much tied to brief annual seasons as Bay- 
reuth, were applied in this way, the profit would be 
far more certain and the social utility prodigiously 
greater. Any English enthusiasm for Bayreuth that 
does not take the form of clamor for a Festival play- 
house in England may be set aside as mere pilgrimage 
mania. 

Those who go to Bayreuth never repent it, although 
the performances there are often far from delect- 
able. The singing is sometimes tolerable, and sometimes 
abominable. Some of the singersare mere animated beer 
casks, too lazy and conceited to practise the self-con- 


136 The Perfect Wagnerite 


trol and physical training that is expected as a matter 
of course from an acrobat, a jockey or a pugilist. The 
women’s dresses are prudish and absurd. It is true 
that Kundry no longer wears an early Victorian ball 
dress with “ruchings,” and that Freia has been pro- 
vided with a quaintly modish copy of the flowered 
gown of Spring in Botticelli’s famous picture; but the 
mailclad Brynhild still climbs the mountains with 
her legs carefully hidden in a long white skirt, and 
looks so exactly like Mrs Leo Hunter as Minerva 
that it is quite impossible to feel a ray of illusion 
whilst looking at her. The ideal of womanly beauty 
aimed at reminds Englishmen of the barmaids of the 
seventies, when the craze for golden hair was at its 
worst. Further, whilst Wagner’s stage directions are 
sometimes disregarded as unintelligently as at Covent 
Garden, an intolerably old-fashioned tradition of half 
rhetorical, half historical-pictorial attitude and gesture 
prevails. The most striking moments of the drama are 
conceived as tableaux vivants with posed models, 
instead of as passages of action, motion and life. 

I need hardly add that the supernatural powers 
of control attributed by credulous pilgrims to Ma- 
dame Wagner do not exist. Prima donnas and tenors 
are as unmanageable at Bayreuth as anywhere else. 
Casts are capriciously changed; stage business 1s in- 
sufficiently rehearsed; the public are compelled to 
listen to a Brynhild or Siegfried of fifty when they 
have carefully arranged to see one of twenty-five, 
much as in any ordinary opera house. Even the con- 
ductors upset the arrangements occasionally. On the 


Bayreuth 137 


other hand, if we leave the vagaries of the stars out 
of account, we may safely expect always that in 
thoroughness of preparation of the chief work of 
the season, in strenuous artistic pretentiousness, in 
pious conviction that the work is of such enormous 
importance as to be worth doing well at all costs, the 
Bayreuth performances will deserve their reputation. 
The band is placed out of sight of the audience, with 
the more formidable instruments beneath the stage, so 
that the singers have not to sing through the brass. 
The effect is quite perfect. 


BAYREUTH IN ENGLAND 


I purposely dwell on the faults of Bayreuth in 
order to show that there is no reason in the world 
why as good and better performances of The Ring 
should not be given in England. Wagner’s scores are 
now before the world; and neither his widow nor his 
son can pretend to handle them with greater authority 
than any artist who feels the impulse to interpret 
them. Nobody will ever know what Wagner himself 
thought of the artists who established the Bayreuth 
tradition: he was obviously not in a position to 
criticize them. For instance, had Rubini survived to 
create Siegmund, it is quite certain that we should not 
have had from Wagner’s pen so amusing and vivid a 
description as we have of his Ottavio in the old Paris 
days. Wagner was under great obligations to the 
heroes and heroines of 1876; and he naturally said 
nothing to disparage their triumphs; but there is no 


138 The Perfect Wagnerite 


reason to believe that all or indeed any of them 
satisfied him as Schnorr of Carolsfeld satisfied him 
as Tristan, or Schréder Devrient as Fidelio. It is just 
as likely as not that the next Schnorr or Schréder may 
arise in England. If that should actually happen, 
neither of them will need any further authority than 
their own genius and Wagner’s scores for their 
guidance. Certainly the less their spontaneous im- 
pulses are sophisticated by the very stagey traditions 
which Bayreuth is handing down from the age of 
Crummles, the better. 


WAGNERIAN SINGERS 


No nation need have much difficulty in producing 
a race of Wagnerian singers. With the single ex- 
ception of Handel, no composer has written music 
so well calculated to make its singers vocal athletes 
as Wagner. Abominably as the Germans sing, it is 
astonishing how they thrive physically on his leading 
parts. His secret is the Handelian secret. Instead of 
specializing his vocal parts after the manner of Verdi 
and Gounod for high sopranos, screaming tenors, and 
high baritones with an effective compass of about a 
fifth at the extreme tiptop of their ranges, and for 
contraltos with chest registers forced all over their 
compass in the manner of music hall singers, he em- 
ploys the entire range of the human voice freely, 
demanding from everybody very nearly two effective 
octaves, so that the voice is well exercised all over, 
and one part of it relieves the other healthily and 


Bayreuth 139 


continually. He uses extremely high notes very spar- 
ingly, and is especially considerate in the matter of 
instrumental accompaniment. Even when the singer 
appears to have all the thunders of the full orchestra 
raging against him, a glance at the score will show 
that he is well heard, not because of any exceptionally 
stentorian power in his voice, but because Wagner 
meant him to be heard and took the greatest care not 
to overwhelm him. Such brutal opacities of accompani- 
ment as we find in Rossint’s Stabat or Verdi’s Trova- 
tore, where the strings play a rum-tum accompani- 
ment whilst the entire wind band blares away, fortis- 
simo, in unison with the unfortunate singer, are never 
to be found in Wagner’s work. Even in an ordinary 
opera house, with the orchestra ranged directly be- 
tween the singers and the audience, his instrumentation 
is more transparent to the human voice than that of 
any other composer since Mozart. At the Bayreuth 
Buhnenfestspielhaus, with the brass under the stage, 
it is perfectly so. 

On every point, then, a Wagner theatre and 
Wagner festivals are much more generally practic- 
able than the older and more artificial forms of 
dramatic music. A presentable performance of The 
Ring is a big undertaking only in the sense in which 
the construction of a railway is a big undertaking: 
that is, it requires plenty of work and plenty of 
professional skill; but it does not, like the old 
Operas and oratorios, require those extraordinary 
vocal gifts which only a few individuals scattered here 
and there throughout Europe are born with. Singers 


140 The Perfect Wagnerite 


who could never execute the roulades of Semiramis, 
Assur, and Arsaces in Rossini’s Semiramide, could 
sing the parts of Brynhild, Wotan and Erda without 
missing a note. Any Englishman can understand 
this if he considers for a moment the difference 
between a Cathedral service and an Italian opera at 
Covent Garden. The service 1s a much more serious 
matter than the opera. Yet provincial talent is sufficient 
for it, if the requisite industry and devotion are forth- 
coming. Let us admit that geniuses of European 
celebrity are indispensable at the Opera (though I 
know better, having seen lusty troopers and porters, 
without art or manners, accepted by fashion as prin- 
cipal tenors at that institution during the long interval 
between Mario and Jean de Reszke); but let us 
remember that Bayreuth has recruited its Parsifals 
from the peasantry, and that the artisans of a village 
in the Bavarian Alps are capable of a famous and 
elaborate Passion Play, and then consider whether 
England is so poor in talent that its amateurs must 
journey to the centre of Europe to witness a Wagner 
Festival. 

The truth is, there is nothing wrong with England . 
except the wealth which attracts teachers of singing 
to her shores in sufficient numbers to extinguish the 
voices of all natives who have any talent as singers. 
Our salvation must come from the class that is too 
poor to have lessons. 


Printed by R. & R. Crare, Lrmirep, Edinburgh 


TIAL 88D 1AdN nox (2) £ duysag 
jo av ony (9) f epipard (S) fur; ayy pur sury (¥) -“LNVSVETg ‘[] “10, 
‘DOISSIJOIg Suse AA 
‘ay (£) fsssapueigg ayz (2) {sasnozy SI9MOPIM (1) “LNVSVHIENQ “I “I0A 


‘Aja3zredos plos 
Yrs BQ = *S9DRJOIg [eUIsUO ayy pue ‘SNVAY ‘fy wordaaauy 4q i0yjny oq} 


OWEIHOTeBIM S0AZ “INVSVAIdNN ANV INVSV4Td ‘SAVId 
SHUYOM DILVNVUAd 


"DIAM US YIusnjgo 29 wv? SyoaoKu Ap4v2 47440 fo syutsdo4 prttsoysnvus) 


39 ‘SUNY sL-szUg UlIPOW GO VION v& pure ‘CdaCYVYMAUNNA AONVLSNOO 
¥O ATMAHSVE WIGVUINGV AHL pepyue aj4ys ueyjeqeziy oq} ut uoIsI0A 
HeweIp oy YM (z78gI) NOISSHAOUd SNOYAA IHHSY) ‘Y ‘ON 


‘sg ‘So6r 
Uf aoBjorg & QM pajoudsy (OggI) TONY IVNOILVUU! AHL ‘2 ‘ON 


‘ADVNON AW AO STAAON 
YOHLNV ANVS AHL AG SHYOM 


‘9 ‘any auLozy uo av fade [019GS pup uoymiporjuy YIM "dquo Dig ay “UOuUIDA L0INGog 
‘Sg JOA LE ‘SAUL VAY, 
‘Q0RJaIg YM YY suo Ul kejd v ‘aNvasoy wapY OL cary aE MO osje SuIpnjouy 
‘usIyorvuy pue AyueysliyD uo pue ydk2qy pue purer] Ul sNY SWIOF{ UO SVd¥jord 
WIM ‘VUVGUVA UOf[VW ANV GNVISI YAHLO STING NHO! 
29 “Kuo Mojegy HL “MOuIpT 40INGOT 
‘SISIUOTINJOADY JO} SUILXLTY 
yOoqpuRP] SAsUOINjOAsy IL, 
‘sjoy nog UJ ‘NVNWuadNg GNV NvWW “@! 
‘KATMIVAA AVHONIG UAHLAY 0} Axroyeorpaq, episidy 
sQ JOA I "KHAOSOTIHG V AGNV ACANOD V ‘NVANYMHdINS ANV NVI x 


oSeuony Aw jo sjaaon, PA0qeaaS “ATTIAHSVE AIAVAINGV AHL 


‘SjOY IUYT, UT ‘NOISUMANOD S,ANNodssvag_ NIVIdV) ‘Ol 
‘S]OY SAI UT “esd sniyn { jo amaviZojoyg YW VALvVdOAT) INV uvsa#7) °6 
*sJOY IIY, TL, 
ut ‘ouXoZing [elouer jo Wesj10g sinaviZ0j0Ug YA “ATdIOSIC SWAId FHL 8 
gavadsayeys uey} Jaye «6 “solyyy UBTUCTOQeI, uO esuvying ioyAYM =“AOVATA 
SQ ‘JOAI ‘SNYLTUNd UOA SAVId ATAHL 


panujuo—GYAOM OILVNVAC 
pnupo-OHLAV AWVS AHL Ad SAAOM 


"JOU "PQ ‘sol ‘S[OA e “uy Aq 

VOVJolg © YW UaNaNAy sawv{ Aq paysjag ‘g6-S6gr ul mana Avpanjos a7 
0} pajnqujuos AyjeuisuQ ‘SAVSSA UNV SNOINIdO OILVNVUd 

you ‘pg sf ‘gc61 
poyuniday “€or ‘uowipy puovsg “g6gi ‘ALIMANOVM LOAAYAd AHL 
7u24g fon ‘168i ‘NSINASAI AO AONASSALNINO AHL 


WSIDILIAD DIHAOSOTIHd NI SAVSSH 


"2061 us aunusofsag 241 42fv uas{isar swfoeg pv100gs v pun ‘sunny “ET yrtsapaag 
hg syfvadojoyg %1 susvjuor uossseosq Sursanyy ‘sayy fo uoyipa svavgas 27 

‘aa0gp sv uviuaagns puv unpy fo uoinipy duuagxis ‘ouinjoa auo 

us 240 INIIAYSD yQvaIuipp wy] puv puvgsnzy «agy of pay wy mozy ‘jau'se ‘yj079 
Syau pg ‘si S4adgvay 4agvq ut‘, poyavue asoys sgooxa ‘shay ays fo suoitpa yvangx 
"SQ «JOA I = ‘diysrosuad) 9y} UO pue ‘aderIeP UO ‘UOISSajOIg [eOIPaT 
oy} UO saoyjalg qUM ‘SAeIq VIUT, “LANSOd OONVId JO dN-ONIMAHS 

AHL ONV ‘GHIVAUVAN ONILLAD ‘VNWATIG SMOLODOd AHL» 


‘Jou 'sI "'yoyaHS yeotdoy yw (6061) SONILIND SSAYMd 
Panuzyuoy—SMAOM OILVNVAG 


venunuvo—-YOHLOAV ANVS AHL AG SAAOM 


‘SI ‘sprvog UL “Pg ‘SI9AOD 
rodeg ‘jyreajicd vs pus 6061 yo aouapuodsauio0a samiy a7 YIM pojuudey ‘v6gr 
‘MOTTE ‘H ‘M ZN 93 4[dar Y ‘SNIVAA WOIMAINS ANV ep age> 

‘PQ “gour 
poyadey ‘oO ‘ONIGVUL IVWdIDINNW AO ASNAS NOWWOD AHL 
‘D9 ‘MVHS GUVNUYG PUY ALOOT “M “) Useajaq ajeqap 
oqnd ev jo wodoy wneqaA ‘AVG DNIMMOM SUNOH LHSOIA NV 
° “yA ‘UOpuoCy ‘uy sjuamatD £ ‘4ya190g 
geiqe.y ‘Arejos995 94} 03 Ajddy ‘pz so ‘pr snoyeA) SLOVUL NVIGVA 
‘PI ‘WLIOF 
yiydmed uy sr “YOO! ‘NOILSHNO IVOSIA AHL GNV WSINVIdVa 
sr ‘0061 ‘AYIdWA AHL ANV WSINVIEVSs 
‘sx (puesnogy, pif) soupy sujngog 5 °sQ ‘wouipTy 
havagyy ‘SYAMOW AVIA pue ANVAD UHLIVM 4q si9A09 pus ssooidsiju0lg = ‘ANV1g 
LUAGAPT pue ‘INVSAg AINNY ‘SIT “D‘W'D WAATIQ AANGAS AMUVIQ) WVITTIM 
aye] O43 ‘AMAA, AANCISG ‘MVHS GUVNaAg Sq ‘68g1 ‘SAVSSH NVIGVA 
‘OINONODA UNV TVOILITOd 
‘$1 ‘go61 soRjarg v yA pozaidey “$6g1 uy Apsrgt7 03 poyNqijzUod Ayeurzuo ‘NOLL 
‘VUANADAC SNepsion xeW Id % A4\dar Y ‘LUV dO ALINVS HHL 
panuru0I— WSID|LIYD DIHAOSOTIHd NI SAVSSSH | 


ponuyo—-AOHLAV AWVS AHL Ad SHUOM 

















