This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


^J    -  '-^^  ^   ( 


AL  3t,3^-  (Sao) 


Tk  gift  of 

Estate  of   Mary  Buokland 


l^<Si:  HARVARD  COLLEGE  LIBRARYJSfc?^ 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


^alHen  CHition 

THE  WRITINGS  OF 
HENRY  DAVID  THOREAU 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Along  the  Old  Marlborough  Road  in  November 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


THE  WRITINGS  OF 
HENRY   DAVID    THOREAU 

JOURNAL 

EDITED  BY  BRADFORD  TORREY 
XIV 

August  1,  1860-November  3,  1861 


BOSTON  AND   NEW  YORK 

HOUGHTON  MIFFLIN  AND  COMPANY 

Ci)e  EtoermDie  T^xttm,  CambrtDigfe 

1906 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


( 


\ 


rH|   19 


M.'Vl'vVAl-  ID 

lUNfVERSlTY 

L I  P  Q  -  ^.Y 

NOV  30  1161 


COPYRIGH  I  1906  BY  HOUGHTON,  MIFFLIN  &  CO. 


\    Ali 


All  rights  reserved 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER   I.    August,  1860  {Mi.  43)  3 

Unperceived  Beauty  —  A  Brilliant  Yellow  Valley  —  Red 
Maple  Swamps  —  Seeds  and  the  Seed-Eaters  —  Ascending 
Mt.  Monadnock  —  Cattle  and  Salt  —  Building  a  Hut  —  In 
Camp  on  the  Mountain  —  Monadnock  Blueberries  —  Moun- 
tain Cranberries  —  A  New  Camp  —  The  Swamps  of  the 
Mountain  —  The  Mountain  Pastures  —  The  View  from 
Monadnock  —  The  Submontane  Cock  —  The  Geography  of 
Fog  —  The  Plants  of  the  Summit  —  The  Scrub  Spruce  —  The 
Prevailing  Plants  —  The  Birds  of  the  Mountain  —  The  Habits 
of  the  Nighthawks  —  Quadrupeds,  Insects,  and  Frogs  —  Vis- 
itors to  the  Summit  —  The  Topography  of  the  Summit  — 
Ponds  seen  from  Monadnock  —  The  Monadnock  Rocks  — 
Bogs  and  Pools  —  Cladonia  Lichens  —  The  Clouds  of  the 
Mountain  —  The  Water  of  the  Summit  —  A  Thistle-Down 

—  Outfit  and  Provisions  —  A  Hoary  Bat  —  Solitary  Tattlers 

—  The  River-Bank  past  prime  —  Property  Rights  in  Berries 

—  Indian  Relics  —  The  Walden  Water  —  High  Blueberries  — 
Foam  on  a  Pond-Shore  —  The  Alder  Locust  —  Sunset  on  Wal- 
den —  The  Hairy  Huckleberry  —  Lemna. 

CHAPTER   II.    September,  1860  (^Et.  43)  69 

The  Seed  of  Forest  Trees  —  The  Transportation  of  Cherry- 
stones —  Dissemination  —  Red  Maple  Seed  —  Mikania  — 
Desmodium  Seeds  and  Superstition  —  Brassica  —  "Dew- 
Grass"  —  A  Canada  Lynx  —  A  Dark  and  Stormy  Night  — 
The  Current  of  the  River  —  The  Canada  Lynx  —  Mr.  Davis's 
Museum  —  The  First  Autmnnal  Day  —  Winged  and  Wingless 
Seeds — The  Early  Botanists*  Descriptions  —  Nature's  Forestry 

—  The  Geiropodium  Fungus  —  A  Little  Dipper  with  Tame 
Ducks  —  Black  Frosts. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


vi  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  in.    October,  1860  (^Br.  43)  98 

The  Work  of  the  Frosts  — A  Fish  Hawk  — Crows  eating 
Acorns  —  Hayden  and  his  Com-Field  —  The  Woods  after  a 
Fire  —  Arctic  Three-toed  Woodpeckers  —  The  Red  Maples 

—  Lily  Pads  in  a  New  Pond  —  Fire  and  Water  —  An  Abun- 
dant Crop  of  White  Oak  Acorns — The  Aristocratic  Pears  —  A 
White  Oak  Year— Water-Lily  Seed-Pods  — Scientific  Descrip- 
tions —  The  Best  Descriptions  —  The  Washington  Ekn's  Crop 
of  Leaves  —  Vivacious  Roots  of  Trees  —  Black  Cherry  Trees 

—  The  Forms  of  Pine  Groves  — Wood  Lot  Histories  —  The 
Growth  of  Young  Oaks  —  A  Poor  Husbandman  —  Starved 
Pastures  —  Trees  which  grow  in  Masses  —  The  Succession  of 
Trees  —  Seedling  Chestnuts  —  Chestnut  Woods  —  A  Young 
Oak  Seedling  —  The  Second  Growth  —  The  Concord  Lynx 

—  Decayed  Acorns  —  The  Best  Oak  Woods  —  The  Stocking 
of  a  Pool  —  The  Development  Theory  —  The  Battle  of  the 
Pines  —  Huckleberry  Bushes  —  The  Age  of  an  Oak  Lot  — 
An  Old  Wood-Lot  —  A  Classification  of  Woods  —  A  Tame 
Squirrel  -^  Galls  and  Gall-Flies  —  Oak  and  Pine  Stumps  — 
Our  Gratitude  to  the  Squirrels  —  An  Old  Pitch  Pine  —  The 
Mortality  of  Seeds  and  Eggs  —  Checkered  Adders  —  Emer- 
son's Wood-Lot  —  Wood-Lot  Studies  —  Large  Puffballs  —  A 
Silk-lined  Cradle  —  A  Chestnut  Lot  —  Seedling  Oaks  under 
Pines  —  Mixed  Woods  —  A  Large  Chestnut  Stump  —  A  Pitch 
Pine  Wood  —  Old  Stumps  —  Pasture  Oaks  —  The  Growth 
of  Pitch  Pines  —  The  Loring  Lot  —  Squirrels  and  Pine  Seed 
—The  Forest-Planters  —  Threshing. 

CHAPTER  IV.    November.  1860  (Mr.  43)  203 

The  Growth  of  Pitch  Pmes  —  List  of  White  Pine  Woods  — 
List  of  Pitch  Pine  Woods  —  List  of  Hardwood  Lots  —  White 
Oaks  —  The  Vaccinia  —  Old  Stumps  —  Wormy  Acorns  —  A 
Great  White  Oak  —  Slow  Growth  and  Soundness  —  Cows  and 
Pasture  Trees  —  Sugar  Maples  —  "Fire-Weeds"  —  Tufte  of 
Dead  Indigo-Weed  —  Manasseh  Cutler  on  Whortleberries  — 
The  Inches  Woods  — The  Canada  Lynx  — The  Growth  of 
Pitch  Pines  —  Old  Oak  Stumps  —  The  Inches  Woods  again  — 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


CONTENTS  vii 

Blood*s  Woods  —  How  they  do  things  in  West  Acton  —  A  Bit 
of  Sharp  Practice  —  Teasel-Raising  —  Little  Auks  —  Counting 
Rings  in  Stumps  —  Pulling  Turnips  —  Railroad  Sleepers  — 
A  Beautiful  November  Day  —  The  Foreign  Land  of  Sudbury 

—  Fruits,  .Native  and  Tropical  —  Sprouted  Acorns  —  The 
First  Flurry  of  Snow  — A  Boy's  Box  Trap  — A  Cohort  of 
Crows  —  Seedling  White  Pines  —  Pitch  Pines  —  A  Nuthatch 

—  The  Fruits  of  New  England  —  The  History  of  Boxboro  — 
Fruits  and  Commerce  —  The  Use  of  Juniper  Berries  —  Succes- 
sors to  the  Pitch  Pines  —  The  Hillside-loving  Walnut  —  The 
Money  Value  of  a  Lynx  —  The  Price  of  a  Man — Moonshine. 

CHAPTER   V.    December,  1860  {Mr.  43)  285 

Young  Hickories  —  An  Opinion  of  John  Brown  —  A  Fugitive 
Slave  in  Canada  —  False  Gods  —  A  Red  Owl  —  Civilization 
and  Berries  —  Crows  and  a  Snapping  Turtle  —  The  Whortle- 
berry Family  —  Blueberries. 

CHAPTER   VI.    1861  (Mr.  43-44)  303 

Our  Wild  Fruits  —  The  Preservation  of  Natural  Features  — 
Ownership  of  Mountain-Tops  —  Going  Across  Lots  —  The 
Thrifty  Farmer  — The  Object  of  Existence  —  The  Indians 
and  Edible  Berries  —  Huckleberry  Cake  —  Notes  from  Read- 
ing —  Nature's  Leisureliness  —  A  Talk  with  Rice  —  A  Kitten 

—  "Carolina  Sports"— The  Squirrel  and  the  Cone  — The 
First  Bluebird  —  The  Winter's  Snow  —  The  Dissemination  of 
the  Birch  —  Walden  0|>en  —  Grandmother's  Dog  —  The  Wil- 
lows —  The  Various  Habits  of  Men  —  Genuine  Histories  — 
The  Greediness  of  Species  —  Naturalized  Plants  —  Spon- 
taneous Generation  —  Buttonwood  Seed  —  Going  to  Law  -^ 
Horace  Mann,  Jr.  —  On  the  Way  to  Minnesota  —  The  Kitten 

—  Birds  about  the  House  on  a  Rainy  Day  —  Concord  and 
the  War  —  An  Interesting  Invention  —  A  Young  Kitten. 

INDEX  847 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

ALONG    THE    OLD    MABLBOBOUGH    BOAD    IK 

NOYEMBEB  (page  257)  Frontispiece 

MT,   MONADNOGK   FBOM   THE   TBOY   BOAD  10 

OLD    CHESTNUT    TBEES    ON    A    HILLTOP    IN 

BOXBOBO  £44 

BLUEBEBBY   BLOSSOMS  SOO 

HEPATICA   AND   BLOODBOOT  888 

THOBEAU'S   GBAVB  842 

MAP  OF  OONGOBD  (Showing  localiiiea  mentioned  by 
Thoreau  in  hia  Jowmal,  Compiled  by  Herbert  W, 
Gleaeon)  846 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XIV 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


THE  JOURNAL   OF 
HENRY    DAVID    THOREAU 

VOLUME   XIV 

1 
AUGUST,  1860  (MT.  48) 

Aug.  1.    P.  M.  —To  Cliffs. 

The  earliest  com  has  shed  its  pollen,  say  a  week  or 
ten  days.  Rye,  wheat,  and  oats  and  barley  have  bloomed, 
say  a  month. 

I  stand  at  the  wall-end  on  the  Cliffs  and  look  over 
the  Miles  meadow  on  Conantum.  It  is  an  unusually 
clear  day  after  yesterday's  rain. 

How  much  of  beauty  —  of  color,  as  well  as  form  — 
on  which  our  eyes  daily  rest  goes  unperceived  by  us! 
No  one  but  a  botanist  is  likely  to  distinguish  nicely  the 
different  shades  of  green  with  which  the  open  surface  of 
the  earth  is  clothed,  —  not  even  a  landscape-painter  if 
he  does  not  know  the  species  of  sedges  and  grasses 
which  paint  it.  With  respect  to  the  color  of  grass,  most 
of  those  even  who  attend  peculiarly  to  the  aspects  of 
Nature  only  observe  that  it  is  more  or  less  dark  or  light, 
green  or  brown,  or  velvety,  fresh  or  parched,  etc.  But 
if  you  are  studying  grasses  you  look  for  another  and 
different  beauty,  and  you  find  it,  in  the  wonderful 
variety  of  color,  etc.,  presented  by  the  various  species. 


Pigitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


4  JOURNAL  [Aug.  1 

Take  the  bare,  unwooded  earth  now,  and  consider  the 
beautiful  variety  of  shades  (or  tints?)  of  green  that 
clothe  it  under  a  bright  sun.  The  pastured  hills  of 
Conantum,  now  just  imbrowned  (proba})ly  by  the  few 
now  stale  flowering  tops  of  the  red-top  which  the  cows 
have  avoided  as  too  wiry),  present  a  hard  and  solid 
green  or  greenish  brown,  just  touched  here  and  there 
delicately  with  light  patches  of  sheep's  fescue  (though 
it  may  be  only  its  radical  leaves  left),  as  if  a  dew  lay  on 
it  there,  —  and  this  has  some  of  the  effect  of  a  watered 
surface,  —  and  the  whole  is  dotted  with  a  thousand 
little  shades  of  projecting  rocks  and  shrubs.  Then, 
looking  lower  at  the  meadow  in  Miles's  field,  that  is 
seen  as  a  bright-yellow  and  sunny  stream  (yet  with  a 
slight  tinge  of  glaucous)  between  the  dark-green  potato- 
fields,  flowing  onward  with  windings  and  expansions, 
and,  as  it  were,  with  rips  and  waterfalls,  to  the  river 
meadows. 

Again,  I  sit  on  the  brow  of  the  orchard,  and  look 
northwest  down  the  river  valley  (at  mid-afternoon). 
There  flows,  or  rests,  tl^e  calm  blue  winding  river,  lake- 
like, with  its  smooth  silver-plated  sides,  and  wherever 
iveeds  extend  across  it,  there  too  the  silver  plate  bridges 
it,  like  a  spirit's  bridge  across  the  Styx;  but  the  rippled 
portions  are  blue  as  the  sky.  This  river  reposes  in  the 
midst  of  a  broad  brilliant  yellow  valley  amid  green 
fields  and  hills  and  woods,  as  if,  like  the  Nanking  or 
Yang-ho  (or  what-not),  it  flowed  through  an  Oriental 
Chinese  meadow  where  yellow  is  the  imperial  color. 
The  immediate  and  raised  edge  of  the  river,  with  its 
willows  and  button-bushes  and  polygonums,  is  a  light 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    A  BRILLIANT  YELLOW  VALLEY  5 

green,  but  the  immediately  adjacent  low  meadows, 
where  the  sedge  prevails,  is  a  brilliant  and  cheerful 
yellow,  intensely,  incredibly  bright,  such  color  as  you 
never  see  in  pictures;  yellow  of  various  tints,  in  the 
lowest  and  sedgiest  parts  deepening  to  so  much  color 
as  if  gamboge  had  been  rubbed  into  the  meadow  there; 
the  most  cheering  color  in  all  the  landscape;  shaded 
with  little  darker  isles  of  green  in  the  midst  of  this  yellow 
sea  of  sedge.  Yet  it  is  the  bright  and  cheerful  yellow,  as 
of  spring,  and  with  nothing  in  the  least  autumnal  in  it. 
How  this  contrasts  with  the  adjacejit  fields  of  red-top, 
now  fast  falling  before  the  scythe! 
•  When  your  attention  has  been  drawn  to  them,  nothing 
is  more  charming  than  the  common  colors  of  the  earth's 
surface.  See  yonder  flashing  field  of  com  through  the 
shimmering  air.    (This  was  said  day  before  yesterday.) 

The  deciduous  woods  generally  have  now  and  for  a 
long  time  been  nearly  as  dark  as  the  pines,  though, 
unlike  the  pines,  they  show  a  general  silveriness. 

For  some  days  have  seen  stigmas  of  what  I  have 
called  Cyperus  dentatus,  but  it  is  evidently  later  than  the 
diandrus. 

See  a  berry  (not  ripe)  of  the  two-leaved  Solomon's- 
seal  dropped  at  the  mouth  of  a  mouse  or  squirrel's  hole, 
and  observe  that  many  are  gone  from  these  plants,  as  if 
plucked  by  mice.  . 

The  sphagnum  shows  little  black-balled  drumsticks 
now.  The  nuthatch  is  active  now.  Meadow-haying 
commenced.     Cinna  arundinacea  (?)  almost. 

Looked  in  two  red  maple  swamps  to  find  the  young 
plants.  If  you  look  carefully  through  a  dense  red  maple 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


6  JOURNAL  [Aug.  1 

swamp  now,  you  find  many  little  maples  a  couple  of 
inches  high  which  have  sprung  up  chiefly  on  certain 
spots  alone,  especially  where  the  seed  has  fallen  on  little 
beds  of  sphagnum,  which  apparently  have  concealed 
the  seed  at  the  same  time  that  they  supplied  the  neces- 
sary moisture.  There  you  find  the  little  tree  already 
deeply  rooted,  while  the  now  useless  winged  seed  lies 
empty  near  by,  with  its  fragile  wing  half  wasted  away,  as 
if  wholly  unrelated  to  that  plant,  —  not  visibly  attached, 
but  lying  empty  on  one  side.  But  so  far  as  I  look,  I  see 
only  one  maple  to  a  seed,  but,  indeed,  I  see  only  a  single 
seed  at  a  time.  You  do  not  find  dense  groves  of  them 
generally,  as  you  might  expect  from  the  abundance  of 
seed  that  falls. 

Nevertheless,  you  will  be  surprised,  on  looking  through 
a  large  maple  swamp  which  two  months  ago  was  red 
with  maple  seed  falling  in  showers  around,  at  the  very 
small  number  of  maple  seeds  to  be  found  there,  and 
probably  every  one  of  these  will  be  empty.  The  little 
maples  appear  oftenest  to  have  sprung  from  such  as 
fell  into  crevices  in  the  moss  or  leaves  and  so  escaped. 
Indeed,  almost  every  seed  that  falls  to  the  earth  is  picked 
up  by  some  animal  or  other  whose  favorite  and  perhaps 
peculiar  food  it  is.  They  are  daily  busy  about  it  in  the 
season,  and  the  few  seeds  which  escape  are  exceptions. 
There  is  at  least  a  squirrel  or  mouse  to  a  tree.  If  you 
postpone  your  search  but  for  a  short  time,  you  find 
yourself  only  gleaning  after  them.  You  may  find  several 
of  their  holes  under  every  tree,  if  not  within  it.  They 
ransack  the  woods.  Though  the  seed  may  be  almost 
microscopic,  it  is  nuts  to  them;  and  this  apparently  is 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    SEEDS  AND  THE   SEED-EATERS  7 

one   of   the   principal   ends   which   these   seeds   were 
intended  to  serve. 

Look  under  a  nut  tree  a  month  after  the  nuts  have 
fallen,  and  see  what  proportion  of  sound  nuts  to  the 
abortive  ones  and  shells  you  will  find  ordinarily.  They 
have  been  dispersed,  and  many  effectually  planted,  far 
and  wide  by  animals.  You  have  come,  you  would 
say,  after  the  feast  was  over,  and  are  presented  with 
shells  only.  It  looks  like  a  platform  before  a  grocery. 
These  little  creatures  must  live,  and,  pray,  what  are 
they  to  eat  if  not  the  fruits  of  the  earth  ?  —  i.  e.  the 
graminivorous  [sic]  ones.* 

Aug.  2.  The  wing  of  the  sugar  maples  is  dry  and  ripe 
to  look  at,  but  the  seed  end  and  seed  are  quite  green.  I 
find,  as  Michaux  did,  one  seed  always  abortive. 

P.  M.  —  Up  Assabet. 

The  young  red  maples  have  sprung  up  chiefly  on  the 
sandy  and  muddy  shores,  especially  where  there  is  a 
bay  or  eddy. 

At  2  p.  M.  the  river  is  twelve  and  seven  eighths  above 
summer  level,  higher  than  for  a  long  time,  on  account 
of  the  rain  of  the  31st.  Seed  of  hop-hornbeam  not  ripe. 
The  button-bush  is  about  in  prime,  and  white  lilies  con- 
siderably past  prime.  Mikania  begun,  and  now,  per- 
haps, the  river's  brink  is  at  its  height.  The  black 
willow  down  is  even  yet  still  seen  here  and  there  on 
the  water. 

The  river,  being  raised  three  or  four  inches,  looks 
quite  full,  and  the  bur-reed,  etc.,  is  floating  off  in  con- 
*  Vide  below. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


8  JOURNAL  [Aug.  2 

siderable  masses.  See  those  round  white  patches  of 
eggs  on  the  upright  sides  of  dark  rocks. 

There  is  now  and  of  late  a  very  thin,  in  some  lights 
purplish,  scum  on  the  water,  outside  of  coarser  drift 
that  has  lodged,  —  a  brown  scum,  somewhat  gossamer- 
like as  it  lies,  and  browner  still  on  your  finger  when  you 
take  it  up.    What  is  it  ?    The  pollen  of  some  plant  ? 

As  we  rest  in  our  boat  under  a  tree,  we  hear  from  time 
to  time  the  loud  snap  of  a  wood  pewee's  bill  overhead, 
which  is  incessantly  diving  to  this  side  and  that  after 
an  insect  and  returning  to  its  perch  on  a  dead  twig.  We 
hear  the  sound  of  its  bill  when  it  catches  one. 

In  huckle-berry  fields  I  see  the  seeds  of  berries  recently 
left  on  the  rocks  where  birds  have  perched.  How  many 
of  these  small  fruits  they  may  thus  disseminate! 

Aug,  3.  The  knotty-rooted  cyperus  out  some  days  at 
least. 

• 

Aug,  4.    8.30  a.  m.  — Start  for  Monadnock.* 

Begins  to  rain  at  9  a.  m.,  and  rains  from  time  to  time 
thereafter  all  day,  the  mountain-top  being  constantly 
enveloped  in  clouds. 

Notice  in  Troy  much  of  the  cyperinus  variety  of  wool- 
grass,  now  done,  of  various  heights.  Also,  by  roadside, 
the  Ribes  Cynoshatu  with  its  prickly  berries  now  partly 
reddened  but  hardly  ripe.  Am  exhilarated  by  the  pecul- 
iar raspberry  scent  by  the  roadside  this  wet  day  —  and 
of  the  dicksonia  fem.    Raspberries  still  quite  common, 

*  [See  account  of  the  Monadnock  excursion  in  Familiar  Letters, 
pp.  368-372;  Riv.  428-433.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  ASCENDING   MONADNOCK  9 

though  late.  The  high  blackberries,  the  mulberry  kind, 
all  still  green  and  red;  and  also  on  the  9th,  except  one 
berry  on  a  rock. 

There  was  a  little  sunshine  on  our  way  to  the  moun- 
tain, but  the  cloud  extended  far  down  its  sides  all  day, 
so  that  one  while  we  mistook  Gap  Monadnock  for  the 
true  mountain,  which  was  more  to  the  north. 

According  to  the  guide-board  it  is  two  and  one  fourth 
miles  from  Troy  to  the  first  fork  in  the  road  near  the 
little  pond  and  schoolhouse,  and  I  should  say  it  was  near 
two  miles  from  there  to  the  summit,  —  all  the  way  up- 
hill from  the  meadow. 


We  crossed  the  immense  rocky  and  springy  pastures, 
containing  at  first  raspberries,  but  much  more  hard- 
hack  in  flower,  reddening  them  afar,  where  cattle  and 
horses  collected  about  us,  sometimes  came  running  to 
us,  as  we  thought  for  society,  but  probably  not.  I  told 
Bent  of  it,  —  how  they  gathered  about  us,  they  were  so 
glad  to  see  a  human  being,  —  but  he  said  I  might  put 
it  in  my  book  so,  it  would  do  no  harm,  but  then  the  fact 
was  they  came  about  me  for  salt.  "Well,"  said  I,  "it 
was  probably  because  I  had  so  much  salt  in  my  constitu- 
tion." Said  he,  **  If  you  had  had  a  little  salt  with  you  [you] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


10  JOURNAL  [Aug.  4 

could  hardly  have  got  away  from  them."  "Well,"  said 
I,  *'  [I]  had  some  salt  in  my  pocket."  "  That 's  what  they 
smelt,"  said  he.  Cattle,  young  and  old,  with  horns  in  all 
stages  of  growth,  —  young  heifers  with  budding  homs, 
— and  horses  with  a  weak  [  ?  ]  Sleepy-David  look,  though 
sleek  and  handsome.  They  gathered  around  us  while 
we  took  shelter  under  a  black  spruce  from  the  rain. 

We  were  wet  up  to  our  knees  before  reaching  the 
woods  or  steep  ascent  where  we  entered  the  cloud.  It 
was  quite  dark  and  wet  in  the  woods,  from  which  we 
emerged  into  the  lighter  cloud  about  3  P.  M.,  and  pro- 
ceeded to  construct  our  camp,  in  the  cloud  occasionally 
amounting  to  rain,  where  I  camped  some  two  years  ago. 

Choosing  a  place  where  the  spruce  was  thick  in  this 
sunken  rock  yard,  I  cut  out  with  a  little  hatchet  a  space 
for  a  camp  in  their  midst,  leaving  two  stout  ones  six 
feet  apart  to  rest  my  ridge-pole  on,  and  such  limbs  of 
these  as  would  best  form  the  gable  ends.  I  then  cut  four 
spruces  as  rafters  for  the  gable  ends,  leaving  the  stub 
ends  of  the  branches  to  rest  the  cross-beams  or  girders 
on,  of  which  there  were  two  or  three  to  each  slope;  and 
I  made  the  roof  very  steep.  Then  cut  an  abundance  of 
large  flat  spruce  limbs,  four  or  five  feet  long,  and  laid 
them  on,  shingle-fashion,  beginning  at  the  ground  and 
covering  the  stub  ends.  This  made  a  foundation  for 
two  or  three  similar  layers  of  smaller  twigs.  Then  made 
a  bed  of  the  same,  closed  up  the  ends  somewhat,  and  all 
was  done.  All  these  twigs  and  boughs,  of  course,  were 
dripping  wet,  and  we  were  wet  through  up  to  our  mid- 
dles. But  we  made  a  good  fire  at  the  door,  and  in  an 
hour  or  two  were  completely  dried. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Mt,  Monadnock  from  the  Troy  Road 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1860]     IN   CAMP  ON  THE   MOUNTAIN         11 

The  most  thickly  leaved  and  flattest  limbs  of  the 
spruce  are  such  as  spread  flat  over  the  rocks  far  and 
wide  (while  the  upper  ones  were  more  bushy  and  less 
flat);  not  the  very  lowest,  which  were  often  partly  un- 
der the  surface  and  but  meagrely  leafed,  but  those  close 
above  them. 

Standing  and  sitting  before  the  fire  which  we  kindled 
under  a  shelving  rock,  we  could  dry  us  much  quicker 
than  at  any  fireside  below,  for,  what  with  stoves  and 
reduced  fireplaces,  they  could  not  have  furnished  such 
blaze  or  heat  in  any  inn's  [  ?]  kitchen  or  parlor.  This 
fire  was  exactly  on  the  site  of  my  old  camp,  and  we 
burned  a  hole  deep  into  the  withered  remains  of  its  roof 
and  bed. 

It  began  to  clear  up  and  a  star  appeared  at  8  p.  m. 
Lightning  was  seen  far  in  the  south.  Cloud,  drift- 
ing cloud,  alternated  with  moonlight  all  the  rest  of 
the  night.  At  11.30  p.  m.  I  heard  a  nighthawk.  Maybe 
it  hunted  then  because  prevented  by  the  cloud  at  even- 
ing. 

I  heard  from  time  to  time  through  the  night  a  distant 
sound  like  thunder  or  a  falling  of  a  pile  of  lumber,  and 
I  suspect  that  this  may  have  been  the  booming  of  night- 
hawks  at  a  distance. 

Aug.  5,  The  wind  changed  to  northerly  toward 
morning,  falling  down  from  over  the  summit  and  sweep- 
ing through  our  camp,  open  on  that  side,  and  we  found 
it  rather  cold! 

About  an  hour  before  sunrise  we  heard  again  the 
nighthawk;  also   the   robin,   chewink,    song   sparrow. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


n  JOURNAL  [x\uG.  5 

FringiUa  hyemalis;  and  the  wood  thrush  from  the  woods 
below. 

Had  a  grand  view  of  the  summit  on  the  north  now, 
it  being  clear.  I  set  my  watch  each  morning  by  sunrise, 
and  this  morning  the  lichens  on  the  rocks  of  the  south- 
ernmost summit  (south  of  us),  just  Ut  by  the  rising  sun, 
presented  a  peculiar  yellowish  or  reddish  brown  light 
(being  wet)  which  they  did  not  any  morning  afterward. 
The  rocks  of  the  main  summit  were  olive-brown,  and 
C.  called  it  the  Mount  of  Olives. 

I  had  gone  out  before  sunrise  to  gather  blueberries, 
—  fresh,  dewy  (because  wet  with  yesterday's  rain), 
almost  crispy  blueberries,  just  in  prime,  much  cooler 
and  more  grateful  at  this  hour,  —  and  was  surprised  to 
hear  the  voice  of  people  rushing  up  the  mountain  for 
berries  in  the  wet,  even  at  this  hour.  These  alternated 
with  bright  light-scarlet  bunchberries  not  quite  in  prime. 

The  sides  and  angles  of  the  cliffs,  and  their  rounded 
brows  (but  especially  their  southeast  angles,  for  I  saw 
very  little  afterward  on  the  north  side;  indeed,  the  cliffs 
or  precipices  are  not  on  that  side),  were  clothed  with 
these  now  lively  olive-brown  lichens  (umbilicaria),  alike 
in  sun  and  shade,  becoming  afterward  and  generally 
dark  olive-brown  when  dry.  Vide  my  specimens.  Many 
of  the  names  inscribed  on  the  summit  were  produced 
by  merely  rubbing  ofif  the  lichens,  and  they  are  thus 
distinct  for  years. 

At  7.30  A.  M.  for  the  most  part  in  cloud  here,  but  the 
country  below  in  sunshine.  We  soon  after  set  out  to 
walk  to  the  lower  southern  spur  of  the  mountain.  It  is 
chiefly  a  bare  gray  and  extremely  diversified  rocky  sur- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        MONADNOCK  BLUEBERRIES  13 

face,  with  here  and  there  a  spruce  or  other  small  tree 
or  bush,  or  patches  of  them,  or  a  little  shallow  marsh 
on  the  rock;  and  the  whole  mountain-top  for  two  miles 
was  covered,  on  countless  little  shelves  and  in  hollows 
between  the  rocks,  with  low  blueberries  of  two  or  more 
species  or  varieties,  just  in  their  prime.  They  are  said 
to  be  later  here  than  below.  Beside  the  kinds  (black 
and  blue  Pennsylvanicum)  common  with  us,  there  was 
the  downy  Vaccinium  Canadense  and  a  form  or  forms 
intermediate  between  this  and  the  former,  i.  e.  of  like 
fonn  but  less  hairy.  The  Vaccinium  Canadense  has  a 
laiger  leaf  and  more  recurved  and  undulating  on  its 
surface,  and  generally  a  lighter  green  than  the  com- 
mon. There  were  the  blue  with  a  copious  bloom,  others 
simply  black  (not  shiny,  as  ours  commonly)  and  on 
largish  bushes,  and  others  of  a  peculiar  blue,  as  if  with 
a  skim-coat  of  blue,  hard  and  thin,  as  if  glazed,  such  as 
we  also  have.    The  black  are  scarce  as  with  us. 

These  blueberries  grew  and  bore  abundantly  almost 
wherever  anything  else  grew  on  the  rocky  part  of  the 
mountain,  —  except  perhaps  the  very  wettest  of  the 
little  swamps  and  the  thickest  of  the  little  thickets,  — 
quite  up  to  the  summit,  and  at  least  thirty  or  forty  peo- 
ple came  up  from  the  surrounding  country  this  Sunday 
to  gather  them.  When  we  behold  this  summit  at  this 
season  of  the  year,  far  away  and  blue  in  the  horizon, 
we  may  think  of  the  blueberries  as  blending  their  color 
with  the  general  blueness  of  the  mountain.  They  grow 
alike  jn  the  midst  of  the  cladonia  lichens  and  of  the 
lambkill  and  moss  of  the  little  swamps.  No  shelf  amid 
the  piled  rocks  is  too  high  or  dry  for  them,  for  every- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


14  JOURNAL  [Aug.  5 

where  they  enjoy  the  cool  and  moist  air  of  the  moun- 
tain. They  are  evidently  a  little  later  than  in  Concord, 
—  say  a  week  or  ten  days  later.  Blueberries  of  every 
degree  of  blueness  and  of  bloom.  There  seemed  to  be 
fewer  of  them  on  the  more  abrupt  and  cold  westerly  and 
northwesterly  sides  of  the  summit,  and  most  in  the  hol- 
lows and  shelves  of  the  plateau  just  southeast  of  the 
summit. 

Perhaps  the  prettiest  berry,  certainly  the  most  novel 
and  interesting  to  me,  was  the  mountain  cranberry, 
now  grown  but  yet  hard  and  with  only  its  upper  cheek 
red.  They  are  quite  local,  even  on  the  mountain.  The 
vine  is  most  common  close  to  the  summit,  but  we  saw 
very  little  fruit  there;  but  some  twenty  rods  north  of 
the  brow  of  this  low  southern  spur  we  found  a  pretty 
little  dense  patch  of  them  between  the  rocks,  where  we 
gathered  a  pint  in  order  to  make  a  sauce  of  them.  They 
here  formed  a  dense  low  flat  bed,  covering  the  rocks 
for  a  rod  or  two,  some  lichens,  green  mosses,  and  the 
mountain  potentilla  mingled  with  them;  and  they  rose 
scarcely  more  than  one  inch  above  the  ground.  These 
vines  were  only  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  clothed  with 
small,  thick,  glossy  leaves,  with  two  or  three  berries 
together,  about  as  big  as  huckleberries,  on  the  recurved 
end,  with  a  red  cheek  uppermost  and  the  other  light- 
colored.  It  was  thus  a  dense,  firm  sward  [  ?  ]  of  glossy 
little  leaves  dotted  with  bright-red  berries.  They  were 
very  easy  to  collect,  for  you  only  made  incessant  dabs 
at  them  with  all  your  fingers  together  and  the  twigs  and 
leaves  were  so  rigid  that  you  brought  away  only  ber- 
ries and  no  leaves. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  MOUNTAIN   CRANBERRIES  15 

I  noticed  two  other  patches  where  the  berries  were 
thick,  viz.  one  a. few  rods  north  of  the  little  rain-water 
lake  of  the  rocks,  at  the  first,  or  small,  meadow  (source 
of  Contoocook)  at  northeast  end  of  the  mountain,  and 
another  not  more  than  fifty  rods  northwest  of  the  sum- 
mit, where  the  vines  were  much  ranker  and  the  berries 
IsLTger.  Here  the  plants  were  four  or  five  inches  high, 
and  there  were  three  or  four  berries  of  pretty  large 
huckleberry  size  at  the  end  of  each,  and  they  branched 
like  little  bushes.  In  each  case  they  occupied  almost 
exclusively  a  little  sloping  shelf  between  the  rocks,  and 
the  vines  and  berries  were  especially  large  and  thick 
where  they  lay  up  against  the  sloping  sunny  side  of  the 
rock. 

We  stewed  these  berries  for  our  breakfast  the  next 
morning,  and  thought  them  the  best  berry  on  the  moun- 
tain, though,  not  being  quite  ripe,  the  berry  was  a  little 
bitterish  —  but  not  the  juice  of  it.  It  is  such  an  acid  as 
the  camper-out  craves.  They  are,  then,  somewhat  ear- 
lier than  the  common  cranberry.  I  do  not  know  that 
they  are  ever  gathered  hereabouts.  At  present  they  are 
very  firm  berries,  of  a  deep,  dark,  glossy  red.  Doubt- 
less there  are  many  more  such  patches  on  the  moun- 
tain.^ 

We  heard  the  voices  of  many  berry-pickers  and  vis- 
itors to  the  summit,  but  neither  this  nor  the  camp  we 
built  afterward  was  seen  by  any  one. 

*  Brought  some  home,  and  stewed  them  the  12th,  and  all  thought 
them  quite  like,  and  as  good  as,  the  common  cranberry.  Yet  George 
Emerson  speaks  of  it  as  "austere"  and  inferior  to  the  common 
cranberry. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


16  JOURNAL  [Aug.  5 

P.  M.  —  Walked  to  the  wild  swamp  at  the  northeast 
spur.  That  part  is  perhaps  the  most  interesting  for  the 
wild  confusion  of  its  variously  formed  rocks,  and  is  the 
least,  if  at  all,  frequented.  We  found  the  skull  and  jaws 
of  a  large  rodent,  probably  a  hedgehog,  —  larger  than 
a  woodchuck's,  —  a  considerable  quantity  of  dry  and 
hard  dark-brown  droppings,  of  an  elliptical  form,  like 
very  large  rat-droppings,  somewhat  of  a  similar  char- 
acter but  darker  than  the  rabbit's,  and  I  suspect  that 
these  were  the  porcupine's. 

Returned  over  the  top  at  5  p.  m.,  after  the  visitors, 
men  and  women,  had  descended,  and  so  to  camp. 

Aug,  6.  The  last  was  a  clear,  cool  night.  At  4  a.  m. 
see  local  lake-like  fogs  in  some  valleys  below,  but  there 
is  lione  here. 

This  forenoon,  after  a  breakfast  on  cranberries,  leav- 
ing, as  usual,  our  luggage  concealed  under  a  large  rock, 
with  other  rocks  placed  over  the  hole,  we  moved  about 
a  quarter  of  a  mile  along  the  edge  of  the  plateau  east- 
ward and  built  a  new  camp  there.  It  was  [a]  place  which 
I  had  noticed  the  day  before,  where,  sheltered  by  a  per- 
pendicular ledge  some  seven  feet  high  and  close  to  the 
brow  of  the  mountain,  grew  five  spruce  trees.  Two  of 
these  stood  four  feet  from  the  rock  and  six  or  more  apart; 
so,  clearing  away,  the  superfluous  branches,  I  rested 
stout  rafters  from  the  rock-edge  to  limbs  of  the  two 
spruces  and  placed  a  plate  beam  across,  and,  with  two 
or  three  cross-beams  or  girders,  soon  had  a  roof  which 
I  could  climb  and  shingle.  After  filling  the  inequalities 
with  rocks  and  rubbish,  I  soon  had  a  sloping  floor  on 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  NEW   CAMP  17 

which  to  make  our  bed.  Lying  there  on  that  shelf  just 
on  the  edge  of  the  steep  declivity  of  the  mountain,  we 
could  look  all  over  the  south  and  southeast  world  with- 
out raising  our  heads.  The  rock  running  east  and  west 
was  our  shelter  on  the  north. 

Our  huts,  being  built  of  spruce  entirely,  were  not  no- 
ticeable two  or  three  rods  off,  for  we  did  [not]  cut  the 
spruce  amid  which  they  were  built  more  than  necessary, 
bending  aside  their  boughs  in  order  to  enter.  My  com- 
panion, returning  from  a  short  walk,  was  lost  when 
within  two  or  three  rods,  the  different  rocks  and  clumps 
of  spruce  looked  so  much  alike,  and  in  the  moonlight 
we  were  liable  to  mistake  some  dark  recess  between  two 
neighboring  spruce  ten  feet  off  for  the  entrance  to  our 
house.  We  heard  this  afternoon  the  tread  of  a  blueberry- 
.  picker  on  the  rocks  two  or  three  rods  north  of  us,  and 
saw  another  as  near,  south,  and,  stealing  out,  we  came 
round  from  another  side  and  had  some  conversation 
with  them,  —  two  men  and  a  boy,  —  but  they  never 
discovered  our  house  nor  suspected  it.  The  surface  is 
so  uneven  that  ten  steps  will  often  sufBce  to  conceal  the 
ground  you  lately  stood  on,  and  yet  the  different  shelves 
and  hollows  are  so  much  alike  that  you  cannot  tell  if 
one  is  new  or  not.  It  is  somewhat  like  travelling  over  a 
huge  fan.  When  in  a  valley  the  nearest  ridge  conceals 
all  the  others  and  you  cannot  tell  one  from  another. 

This  afternoon,  again  walked  to  the  larger  north- 
east swamp,  going  directly,  t.  e,  east  of  the  promon- 
tories or  part  way  down  the  slopes.  Bathed  in  the  small 
rocky  basin  above  the  smaller  meadow.  These  two 
swamps  are  about  the  wildest  part  of  the  mountain  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


18  JOURNAL  [Aug.  6 

most  interesting  to  me.  The  smaller  occurs  on  the  north- 
east side  of  the  main  mountain,  i,  e.  at  the  northeast  end 
of  the  plateau.  It  is  a  little  roundish  meadow  a  few  rods 
over,  with  cotton-grass  in  it,  the  shallow  bottom  of  a 
basin  of  rock,  and  out  the  east  side  there  trickles  a  very 
slight  stream,  just  moistening  the  rock  at  present  and 
collecting  enough  in  one  cavity  to  afford  you  a  drink. 
This  is  evidently  a  source  of  the  Contoocook,  the  one  I 
noticed  two  years  ago  as  such. 

The  larger  swamp  is  considerably  lower  and  more 
northerly,  separating  the  northeast  spur  from  the  main 
mountain,  probably  not  far  from  the  line  of  Dublin.  It 
extends  northwest  and  southeast  some  thirty  or  forty 
rods,  and  probably  leaked  out  now  under  the  rocks  at 
the  northwest  end,  —  though  I  found  water  only  half 
a  dozen  rods  below,  —  and  so  was  a  source  probably  of 
the  Ashuelot.  The  prevailing  grass  or  sedge  in  it,  grow- 
ing in  tufts  in  the  green  moss  and  sphagnum  between 
the  fallen  dead  spruce  timber,  was  the  Eriophorum  va- 
gincUum  (long  done)  and  the  E,  gracUe.  Also  the  Epi- 
lohium  palustre,  apparently  in  prime  in  it,  and  common 
wool-grass  (Scirpus  Eriophorum),  Around  its  edge  grew 
the  Chelone  glabra  (not  yet  out),  meadow-sweet  in  bloom, 
black  choke-berry  just  ripening,  red  elder  (its  fruit  in 
prime),  mountain-ash,  Carex  trisperma  and  Deweyana 
(small  and  slender),  and  the  fetid  currant  in  fruit  (in  a 
torrent  of  rocks  at  the  east  end),  etc.,  etc. 

I  noticed  a  third,  yet  smaller,  quite  small,  swamp,  yet 
more  southerly,  on  the  edge  of  the  plateau,  evidently 
another  source  of  a  river,  where  the  snows  melt. 

At  5  p.  M.  we  went  to  our  first  camp  for  our  remain- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        THE  MOUNTAIN  PASTURES  19 

ing  baggage.  From  this  point  at  this  hour  the  rocks  of  the 
precipitous  summit  (under  whose  south  side  that  camp 
is  placed),  lit  by  the  declining  sun,  were  a  very  light  gray, 
with  leddish-tawny  touches  from  the  now  drying  Aira 
flexuosa  on  the  inaccessible  shelves  and  along  the  seams. 
Returned  to  enjoy  the  evening  at  the  second  camp. 

Evening  and  morning  were  the  most  interesting  sea- 
sons, especially  the  evening.  Each  day,  about  an  hour 
before  sunset,  I  got  sight,  as  it  were  accidentally,  of  an 
elysium  beneath  me.  The  smoky  haze  of  the  day,  sug- 
gesting a  furnace-like  heat,  a  trivial  dustiness,  gave 
place  to  a  clear  transparent  enamel,  through  which 
houses,  woods,  farms,  and  lakes  were  seen  as  in  [a]  pic- 
ture indescribably  fair  and  expressly  made  to  be  looked 
at.  At  any  hour  of  the  day,  to  be  sure,  the  surrounding 
country  looks  flatter  than  it  is.  Even  the  great  steep, 
furrowed,  and  rocky  pastures,  red  with  hardback  and 
raspberries,  which  creep  so  high  up  the  mountain  amid 
the  woods,  in  which  you  think  already  that  you  are  half- 
way up,  perchance,  seen  from  the  top  or  brow  of  the 
mountain  are  not  for  a  long  time  distinguished  for  ele- 
vation above  the  surrounding  country,  but  they  look 
smooth  and  tolerably  level,  and  the  cattle  in  them  are 
not  noticed  or  distinguished  from  rocks  unless  you 
search  very  particularly.  At  length  you  notice  how  the 
houses  and  bams  keep  a  respectful,  and  at  first  unac- 
countable, distance  from  these  near  pastures  and  woods, 
though  they  are  seemingly  flat,  that  there  is  a  broad 
neutral  ground  between  the  roads  and  the  mountain; 
and  yet  when  the  truth  flashes  upon  you,  you  have  to 
imagine  the  long,  ascending  path  through  them. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


«0  JOURNAL  [Aug.  6 

To  speak  of  the  landscape  generally,  the  open  or 
cleared  land  looks  like  a  thousand  little  swells  or  tops 
of  low  rounded  hills,  —  tent-like  or  like  a  low  hay-cap 
spread,  —  tawny  or  green  amid  the  woods.  As  you  look 
down  on  this  landscape  you  little  think  of  the  hills  where 
the  traveller  walks  his  horse.  The  woods  have  not  this 
swelling  look.  The  most  common  color  of  open  land 
(from  apex  at  5  p.  m.)  is  tawny  brown,  the  woods 
dark  green.  At  midday  the  darker  green  of  ever- 
greens amid  the  hardwoods  is  quite  discernible  half  a 
dozen  miles  oflf.  But,  as  the  most  interesting  view  is 
at  sunset,  so  it  is  the  part  of  [the]  landscape  nearest 
to  you  and  most  immediately  beneath  the  mountain, 
where,  as  usual,  there  is  that  invisible  gelid  haze  to 
glass  it. 

The  nearest  house  to  the  mountain  which  we  saw 
from  our  camp  —  one  on  the  Jaff rey  road  —  was  in  the 
shadow  even  of  the  low  southern  spur  of  the  mountain 
which  we  called  the  Old  South,  just  an  hour  before  the 
sun  set,  while  a  neighbor  on  a  hill  within  a  quarter  of  a 
mile  eastward  enjoyed  the  sunlight  at  least  half  an  hour 
longer.  So  much  shorter  are  their  days,  and  so  much 
more  artificial  light  and  heat  must  they  obtain,  at  the 
former  house.  It  would  be  a  serious  loss,  methinks,  one 
hour  of  sunlight  every  day.  We  saw  the  sun  so  much 
longer.  Of  course  the  labors  of  the  day  were  brought 
to  an  end,  the  sheep  began  to  bleat,  the  doors  were 
closed,  the  lamps  were  lit,  and  preparations  for  the  night 
were  made  there,  so  much  the  earlier. 

The  landscape  is  shown  to  be  not  flat,  but  hilly,  when 
the  sun  is  half  an  hour  high,  by  the  shadows  of  the  hills- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE  VIEW  FROM  MONADNOCK       21 

But,  above  all,  from  half  an  hour  to  two  hours  before 
sunset  many  western  mountain-ranges  are  revealed, 
as  the  sun  declines,  one  behind  another,  by  their  dark 
outUnes  and  the  intervening  haze;  i.  e,,  the  ridges  are 
dark  lines,  while  the  intervening  valleys  are  a  cloud- 
like  haze.  It  was  so,  at  least,  from  6  to  6.30  p.  m.  on  the 
6th;  and,  at  5  p.  m.  on  the  8th,  it  being  very  hazy  still, 
I  could  count  in  the  direction  of  Saddleback  Mountain 
eight  distinct  ranges,  revealed  by  the  darker  Unes  of  the 
ridges  rising  above  this  cloud-like  haze.  And  I  might 
have  added  the  ridge  of  Monadnock  itself  within  a  quar- 
ter of  a  mile  of  me. 

Of  course,  the  last  half  of  these  mountain-ridges  ap- 
peared successively  higher  and  seemed  higher,  all  of 
them  (i.  e,  the  last  half),  than  the  mountain  we  were 
on,  as  if  you  had  cUmbed  to  the  heights  of  the  sky  by  a 
succession  of  stupendous  terraces  reaching  as  far  as 
you  could  see  from  north  to  south.  The  Connecticut 
Valley  was  one  broad  gulf  of  haze  which  you  were  soon 
over.  They  were  the  Green  Mountains  that  we  saw, 
but  there  was  no  greenness,  only  a  bluish  mistiness,  in 
what  we  saw;  and  all  of  Vermont  that  lay  between  us 
and  their  summit  was  but  a  succession  of  parallel  ranges 
of  mountains.  Of  course,  almost  all  that  we  mean  com- 
mercially and  agriculturally  by  Vermont  was  concealed 
in  those  long  and  narrow  haze-filled  valleys.  I  never 
saw  a  mountain  that  looked  so  high  and  so  melted  away 
at  last  cloud-like  into  the  sky,  as  Saddleback  this  eve, 
when  your  eye  had  clomb  to  it  by  these  eight  succes- 
sive terraces.  You  had  to  begin  at  this  end  and  ascend 
step  by  step  to  recognize  it  for  a  mountain  at  all.  If  you 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


22  JOURNAL  [Aug.  6 

had  first  rested  your  eye  on  if,  you  would  have  seen  it 
for  a  cloud,  it  was  so  incredibly  high  in  the  sky. 

After  sunset  the  ponds  are  white  and  distinct.^  Ear- 
lier we  could  distinguish  the  reflections  of  the  woods 
perfectly  in  ponds  three  miles  off. 

I  heard  a  cock  crow  very  shrilly  and  distinctly  early 
in  the  evening  of  the  8th.  This  was  the  most  distinct 
sound  from  the  lower  world  that  I  heard  up  there  at 
any  time,  not  excepting  even  the  railroad  whistle,  which 
was  louder.  It  reached  my  ear  perfectly,  to  each  note 
and  curl,  —  from  some  submontane  cock.  We  also 
heard  at  this  hour  an  occasional  bleat  from  a  sheep  in 
some  mountain  pasture,  and  a  lowing  of  a  cow.  And 
at  last  we  saw  a  light  here  and  there  in  a  farmhouse 
window.  We  heard  no  sound  of  man  except  the  rail- 
road whistle  and,  on  Sunday,  a  church-bell.  Heard  no 
dog  that  I  remember.  Therefore  I  should  say  that,  of 
all  the  sounds  of  the  farmhouse,  the  crowing  of  the  cock 
could  be  heard  furthest  or  most  distinctly  under  these 
circumstances.  It  seemed  to  wind  its  way  through  the 
layers  of  air  as  a  sharp  gimlet  through  soft  wood,  and 
reached  our  ears  with  amusing  distinctness. 

Aug.  7.  Morning  —  dawn  and  sunrise  —  was  an- 
other interesting  season.  I  rose  always  by  four  or  half 
past  four  to  observe  the  signs  of  it  and  to  correct  my 
watch.  From  our  first  camp  I  could  not  see  the  sun  rise, 
but  only  when  its  first  light  (yellowish  or,  rather,  pink- 

*  At  5  p.  M.  the  5th,  being  on  the  apex,  the  small  pond  by 
the  schoolhouse  is  mostly  smooth  plated,  with  a  darker  rip- 
pled portion  in  the  middle. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]         THE   GEOGRAPHY  OF  FOG  23 

ish)  was  reflected  from  the  lichen-clad  rocks  of  the  south- 
em  spur.  But  here,  by  going  eastward  some  forty  rods, 
I  could  see  the  sun  rise,  though  there  was  invariably  a 
low  stratum  or  bar  of  cloud  in  the  horizon.  The  sun 
rose  about  five.  The  tawny  or  yellowish  pastures  about 
the  mountain  (below  the  woods;  what  was  the  grass?) 
reflected  the  auroral  light  at  4.20  a.  m.  remarkably,  and 
they  were  at  least  as  distinct  as  at  any  hour. 

There  was  every  morning  more  or  less  solid  white 
fog  to  be  seen  on  the  earth,  though  none  on  the  moun- 
tain. I  was  struck  by  the  localness  of  these  fogs.  For 
five  mornings  they  occupied  the  same  place  and  were 
about  the  same  in  extent.  It  was  obvious  that  certain 
portions  of  New  Hampshire  and  Massachusetts  were 
at  this  season  commonly  invested  with  fog  in  the  morn- 
ing, while  others,  or  the  larger  part,  were  free  from  it. 
The  fog  lay  on  the  lower  parts  only.  From  our  point  of 
view  the  largest  lake  of  fog  lay  in  Rindge  and  southward; 
and  southeast  of  Fitzwilliam,  i.  e.  about  Winchendon, 
very  large  there.  In  short,  the  fog  lay  in  great  spidery 
lakes  and  streams  answering  to  the  lakes,  streams,  and 
meadows  beneath,  especially  over  the  sources  of  Miller's 
River  and  the  region  of  primitive  wood  thereabouts; 
but  it  did  [not]  rest  on  lakes  always,  i.  e.,  where  they 
were  elevated,  as  now  some  in  JaflFrey  were  quite  clear. 
It  suggested  that  there  was  an  important  difference,  so 
far  as  the  health  and  spirits  of  the  inhabitants  were  con- 
cerned, between  the  town  where  there  was  this  regular 
morning  fog  and  that  where  there  was  none.  I  shall 
always  remember  the  inhabitants  of  State  Line  as  dwell- 
ers in  the  fog.  The  geography  and  statistics  of  fog  have 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


24  JOURNAL  [Aug.  7 

not  been  ascertained.  If  we  awake  into  a  fog,  it  does 
not  occur  to  us  that  the  inhabitants  of  a  neighboring 
town  which  lies  higher  may  have  none,  neither  do  they, 
being  ignorant  of  this  happiness,  inform  us  of  it.  Yet, 
when  you  come  to  look  down  thus  on  the  country  every 
morning,  you  see  that  here  this  thick  white  veil  of  fog 
is  spread  and  not  there.  It  was  often  several  hundred 
feet  thick,  soon  rising,  breaking  up,  and  drifting  off,  or 
rather  seeming  to  drift  away,  as  it  evaporated.  There 
was  commonly  such  a  risen  fog  drifting  through  the 
interval  between  this  mountain  and  Gap  Monad- 
nock. 

One  morning  I  noticed  clouds  as  high  as  the  Peter- 
boro  Hills,  —  a  lifted  fog,  —  ever  drifting  easteriy  but 
making  no  progress,  being  dissipated.  Also  long  rolls 
and  ant-eaters  of  cloud,  at  last  reduced  by  the  sun  to 
mere  vertebrae.  That  morning  (the  8th)  the  great  and 
general  cloud  and  apparently  fog  combined  over  the 
lowest  land  running  southwest  from  Rindge  was  ap- 
parently five  hundred  or  more  feet  deep,  but  our  moun- 
tain was  above  all. 

This  forenoon  I  cut  and  measured  a  spruce  on  the 
north  side  the  mountain,  and  afterward  visited  the 
summit,  where  one  of  the  coast  surveyors  had  been 
signalling,  as  I  was  told,  to  a  mountain  in  Laconia,  some 
fifty-five  miles  off,  with  a  glass  reflector. 

After  dinner,  descended  into  the  gulf  and  swamp 
beneath  our  camp.  At  noon  every  roof  in  the  southern 
country  sloping  toward  the  north  was  distinctly  re- 
vealed, —  a  lit  gray. 

In  the  afternoon,  walked  to  the  Great  Gulf  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE  PLANTS  OF  THE  SUMMIT        «5 

meadow,  in  the  midst  of  the  plateau  just  east  of  and 
under  the  summit. 


Aug.  8.  Wednesday.  8.30  a.  m.  Walk  round  the  west 
side  of  the  summit.  Bathe  in  the  rocky  pool  there, 
collect  mountain  cranberries  on  the  northwest  side, 
return  over  the  summit,  and  take  the  bearings  of  the 
diflFerent  spurs,  etc.    Return  to  camp  at  noon. 

Toward  night,  walk  to  east  edge  of  the  plateau. 

Aug.  9.  At  6  a.  m.,  leave  camp  for  Troy,  where  we 
arrive,  after  long  pauses,  by  9  a.  m.,  and  take  the  cars 
at  10.5. 

I  observed  these  plants  on  the  rocky  summit  of  the 
mountain,  above  the  forest :  — 

Raspberry,  not  common. 

Low  blueberries  of  two  or  three  varieties.^ 

Bunchberry. 

Solidago  thyraoidea. 

Fetid  currant,  common ;  leaves  beginning  to  be  scaileti  grows 

amid  loose  fallen  rocks. 
Red  cherry,  some  ripe,  and  handsome. 
Black  choke-berry. 

PoientUla  iriderUata^  still  lingering  in  bloom. 
Arcdia  htsptda^  still  lingering  in  bloom. 
Cow-wheat,  common,  still  in  bloom. 
Mountain  cranberry,  not  generally  abundant;  full  grown  earlier 

than  lowland  ditto.' 
Black  spruce. 

Lambkill,  lingering  in  flower  in  cool  and  moist  places. 
Aster  acuminaiuSy  abundant;  not  generally  open,  but  fairly  begun 

to  bloom. 

»  Vide  p.  [11].  »  Vide  p.  [12]. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


26  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

Red  elder,  ripe,  apparently  in  prime,  not  uncommon. 
Arenaria  Graenlandica,  still  pretty  common  in  flower. 
Solidago  lanceolaia^  not  imconmion;  just  fairly  begun. 
EpUobium  angustifolium,  in  bloom;  not  common,  however. 
Epilobium  pcdustre,  some  time,  common  in  mosses,  small  and 

slender. 
Wild  holly,  conunon;  berries  not  quite  ripe. 
Viburnum  nudum^  common;  berries  green. 
White  pine;  saw  three  or  four  only,  mostly  very  small. 
Moimtain-ash,  abundant;  berries  not  ripe;  generally  very  small, 

largest  in  swamps. 
Diervilla,  not  unconunon,  still. 
Rhodora,  abundant;  low,  t.  e.  short. 
Meadow-sweet,  abundant,  apparently  in  prime. 
Hemlocks ;  two  little  ones  with  rounded  tops. 
CheUme  glabra,  not  yet;  at  northeast  swamp-side. 
Yarrow. 

Canoe  birch,  very  small. 
ClivJUmia  horealis,  with  fruit. 
Checkerberry. 
Gold-thread. 
One    three-ribbed    goldenrod,    northwest    side    (not    Cana- 

dense). 
Tall  rough  goldenrod,  not  yet;  not  unconmion. 
Populus  fremtdiformis^  not  very  conunon. 
Polygonum  cilinode^  in  bloom. 
Yellow  birch,  small. 
Fir.  a  little;  four  or  five  trees  noticed. 
Willows,  not  uncommon,  four  or  five  feet  high. 
Red  maple,  a  very  little,  small. 
Water  andromeda,  common  about  the  bogs. 
Trientalis. 

Pearly  everlasting,  out. 
Diplopappus  umbeUahu^  in  bloom,  not  common  (?);  northeast 

swamp-side,  also  northwest  side  of  mountain. 
Juncua  irifidus. 

Some  Juncus  paradoxus  t  )  ^^^  ^^  ^  ^^^^ 
Some  J  uncus  acumtnahu  f  ) 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE   PLANTS  OF  THE   SUMMIT        27 

CYPERACE^ 
Erio'phoru'm  gracUe,  abundant,  whitening  the  little  swamps. 
Eriopkorum  vaginatum,  abundant,  little  swamps,    long  done, 

(this  the  coarse  grass  in  tufts,  in  marshes). 
Wool-grass,  not  uncommon,  (common  kind). 
Carex  trisperma  (?)  or  Deweyana^  with  large  seeds,  slender  and 

drooping,  by  side  of  northeast  swamp.    Vide  press. 
Carex  scoparia  f  or  straminea  f  a  little. 
C.  dehilis, 

Carex f  small,  rather  dose-spiked,  C.  canescena-like  ( ? ),  conmion. 
A  fine  grass-like  plant  very  conmion,  perhaps  Eleocharis  temds; 

now  without  heads,  but  marks  of  them. 

GRASSES 
Aira  fleaniosa. 
Glyceria  ehngata,  with  appressed  branches  (some  purplish),  in 

swamp. 
Blue-joint,  apparently  in  prime,  one  place. 
Festuca  ovina^  one  place. 
Cinna  arundinacea,  one  place. 
Agrostis  scabra  ( ? ),  at  our  spring,  q.  v. 


4r^y. 


FERNS   AND   LICHENS,   ETC. 
A  large  greenish  lichen  flat  on  rocks,  of  a 

peculiarly  concentric  growth,  q.  v. 
Some  common  sulphur  lichen. 
The  very  bright  handsome  crustaceous  yellow  lichen,  as  on  White 

Mts.,  q.  V. 
Two  or  three  umbilicaria  lichens,  q.  v.,  giving  the  dark  brown  to 

the  rocks. 
A  little,  in  one  place,  of  the  old  hat  umbilicaria,  as  at  Flint's  Pond 

Rock. 
Green  moss  and  sphagnum  in  the  marshes. 
Two  common  cladonias,  white  and  greenish. 
Stereocaulon. 

Lycopodtum  comptanatum,  one  place. 
Lycopodium  annotinum,  not  very  common. 
Common  polypody. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


28  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

Dicksonia  fern,  q.  v. 

Sensitive  fem,  and  various  other  common  ones. 

I  see  that  in  my  last  visit,  in  June,  '58,  I  also  saw 
here  Labrador  tea  (on  the  north  side),  two-leaved  Solo- 
mon's-seal,  Amelanchier  Canadensis  var.  oligocarpa 
and  var.  ohlongifolia,  one  or  two  or  three  kinds  of  wil- 
lows, a  little  mayflower,  and  chiogenes,  and  Lycopodium 
clavatum. 

The  prevailing  trees  and  shrubs  of  the  mountain- 
top  are,  in  order  of  commonness,  etc.,  low  blueberry, 
black  spruce,  lambkill,  black  choke-berry,  wild  holly.  Vi- 
burnum nudurriy  mountain-ash,  meadow-sweet,  rhodora, 
red  cherry,  canoe  birch,  water  andromeda,  fetid  currant. 

The  prevailing  and  characteristic  smaller  plants,  ex- 
cepting grasses,  cryptogamic,  etc. :'  Potentilla  tridentatay 
Solidago  thyrsoideay  bunchberry,  cow-wheat.  Aster  acu- 
minatuSy  Arenaria  Groenlandica,  mountain  cranberry, 
Juncus  trifiduSy  Clintonia  borealis,  Epilobium  palustre, 
Aralia  hispida. 

Of  CyperaceoB  the  most  common  and  noticeable  now 
were  Eriophorum  gracile  and  vaginatum,  a  few  sedges, 
and  perhaps  the  grass-like  Eleocharis  tenuis. 

The  grass  of  the  mountain  now  was  the  Air  a  fleamosa^ 
large  and  abundant,  now  somewhat  dry  and  withered, 
on  all  shelves  and  along  the  seams,  quite  to  the  top;  a 
pinkish  tawny  now.  Most  would  not  have  noticed  or 
detected  any  other.  The  other  kinds  named  were  not 
common.  You  would  say  it  was  a  true  mountain  grass. 
The  only  grass  that  a  careless  observer  would  notice. 
There  was  nothing  like  a  sod  on  the  mountain-top.  The 
tufts  of  J.  trifidus,  perhaps,  came  the  nearest  to  it. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   SCRUB   SPRUCE  29 

The  black  spruce  is  the  prevailing  tree,  commonly 
six  or  eight  feet  high;  but  very  few,  and  those  only  in 
the  most  sheltered  places,  as  hollows  and  swamps,  are 
of  regular  outline,  on  account  of  the  strong  and  cold 
winds  with  which  they  have  to  contend.  Fifteen  feet  high 
would  be  unusually  large.  They  cannot  grow  here  with- 
out some  kind  of  lee  to  start  with.  They  commonly 
consist  of  numerous  flat  branches  close  above  one  an- 
other for  the  first  foot  or  two,  spreading  close  over  the 
surface  and  filling  and  concealing  the  hollows  between 
the  rocks;  but  exactly  at  a  level  with  the  top  of  the  rock 
which  shelters  them  they  cease  to  have  any  limbs  on 
the  north  side,  but  all  their  limbs  now  are  included 
within  a  quadrant  between  southeast  and  southwest, 
while  the  stem,  which  is  always  perfectly  perpendicular, 
is  bare  and  smooth  on  the  north  side;  yet  it  is  led  on- 
ward at  the  top  by  a  tuft  of  tender  branches  a  foot  in 
length  and  spreading  every  way  as  usual,  but  the  north- 
em  part  of  these  successively  die  and  disappear.  They 
thus  remind  you  often  of  masts  of  vessels  with  sails  set 
on  one  side,  and  sometimes  one  of  these  almost  bare 
masts  is  seen  to  have  been  broken  short  oflF  at  ten  feet 
from  the  ground,  such  is  the  violence  of  the  wind  there. 
I  saw  a  spruce,  healthy  and  straight,  full  sixteen  feet 
without  a  limb  or  the  trace  of  a  limb  on  the  north  side. 
When  building  my  camp,  in  order  to  get  rafters  six  feet 
long  and  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter  at  the  small  end, 
I  was  obliged  to  cut  down  spruce  at  least  five  inches  in 
diameter  at  one  foot  from  the  ground.  So  stout  and  ta- 
pering do  they  grow.  They  spread  so  close  to  the  rocks 
that  the  lower  branches  are  often  half  worn  away  for  a 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


30  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

foot  in  length  by  their  rubbing  on  the  rocks  in  the  wind, 
and  I  sometimes  mistook  the  creaking  of  such  a  Kmb 
for  the  note  of  a  bird,  for  it  is  just  such  a  note  as  you 
would  expect  to  hear  there.  The  two  spruce  which 
formed  the  sides  of  my  second  camp  had  their  lower 
branches  behind  the  rock  so  thick  and  close,  and,  on 
the  outsides  of  the  quadrant,  so  directly  above  one  an- 
other perpendicularly,  that  they  made  two  upright  side 
walls,  as  it  were,  very  convenient  to  interlace  and  make 
weather-tight. 

I  selected  a  spruce  growing  on  the  highest  part  of 
the  plateau  east  of  the  summit,  on  its  north  slope,  about 
as  high  as  any  tree  of  its  size,  to  cut  and  count  its  rings. 
It  was  five  feet  five  inches  high.  As  usual,  all  its  limbs 
except  some  of  the  leading  twigs  extended  toward  the 
south.  One  of  the  lowermost  limbs,  so  close  to  the 
ground  that  I  thought  its  green  extremity  was  a  distinct 
tree,  was  ten  feet  long.  There  were  ten  similar  limbs 
(though  not  so  long)  almost  directly  above  one  another, 
within  two  feet  of  the  ground,  the  largest  two  inches 
thick  at  the  butt.  I  cut  off  this  tree  at  one  foot  from  the 
ground.  It  was  there  five  inches  in  diameter  and  had 
forty-four  rings,  but  four  inches  of  its  growth  was  on  the 
south  side  the  centre  and  only  one  inch  on  the  north 
side.  I  cut  it  off  again  nineteen  inches  higher  and  there 
there  were  thirty-five  rings. 

Our  fuel  was  the  dead  spruce  —  apparently  that 
which  escaped  the  fire  some  forty  years  ago!!  —  which 
lies  spread  over  the  rocks  in  considerable  quantity  still, 
especially  at  the  northeast  spur.  It  makes  very  good 
dry  fuel,  and  some  of  it  is  quite  fat  and  sound.     The 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


1860]         THE  PREVAILING  PLANTS  31 

spruce  twigs  were  our  bed.  I  observed  that,  being  laid 
bottoDo^upward  in  a  hot  sun,  as  at  the  foot  of  our  bed, 
the  leaves  turned  pale-brown,  as  if  boiled,  and  fell  oflF 
very  soon. 

The  black  spruce  is  certainly  a  very  wild  tree,  and 
loves  a  primitive  soil  just  made  out  of  disintegrated 
granite. 

After  the  low  blueberry  I  should  say  that  the  lamb- 
kill  was  the  commonest  shrub.  The  black  choke-berry 
also  was  very  common,  but  this  and  the  rhodora  were 
both  dwarfish.  Though  the  meadow-sweet  was  very 
common,  I  did  not  notice  any  hardback;  yet  it  was 
exceedingly  prevalent  in  the  pastures  below. 

The  Solidago  thyrsoidea  was  tjie  goldenrod  of  the 
mountain-top,  from  the  woods  quite  to  the  summit. 
Any  other  goldenrod  was  comparatively  scarce.  It  was 
from  two  inches  to  two  feet  high.  It  grew  both  in  small 
swamps  and  in  the  seams  of  the  rocks  everywhere,  and 
was  now  in  its  prime. 

The  bunchberry  strikes  one  from  these  parts  as  much 
as  any,  —  about  a  dozen  berries  in  a  dense  cluster,  a 
lively  scarlet  on  a  green  ground. 

Spruce  was  the  prevailing  tree;  blueberry,  the  berry; 
S.  thyrsoidea^  the  goldenrod;  A.  acuminatusy  the  aster 
(the  only  one  I  saw,  and  very  common);  Juncus  tri- 
fiduSy  the  juncus;  and  Aira  flexnosa,  the  grass,  of  the 
mountain-top. 

The  two  cotton-grasses  named  were  very  common 
and  conspicuous  in  and  about  the  little  meadows. 

The  Juncus  trifidus  was  the  common  grass  (or  grass- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


82  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

like  plant)  of  the  very  highest  part  of  the  mountain,  — 
the  peak  and  for  thirty  rods  downward,  —  growing  on 
the  shelves  and  especially  on  the  edges  of  the  scars 
rankly,  and  on  this  part  of  the  mountain  almost  alone 
had  it  fruited,  —  for  I  think  that  I  saw  it  occasionally 
lower  and  elsewhere  on  the  rocky  portion  without 
fruit. 

The  apparently  common  green  and  white  cladonias, 
together  with  yet  whiter  stereocaulon,  grew  all  over  the 
flat  rocks  in  profusion,  and  the  apparently  common 
greenish  rock  lichen  {q.  v,  in  box)  grew  concentricwise 
in  large  circles  on  the  slopes  of  rocks  also,  not  to  men- 
tion the  common  small  umbilicaria  {q,  v.)  of  one  or 
two  kinds  which  covered  the  brows  and  angles  of  the 
rocks. 

The  berries  now  ripe  were:  blueberries,  bunchber- 
ries,  fetid  currant,  red  cherry,  black  choke-berry  (some 
of  them),  mountain  cranberry  (red-cheeked  and  good 
cooked),  red  elder  (quite  showy),  Clintonia  boreaJis, 
raspberry  (not  common).  And  berries  yet  green  were: 
Aralia  hispida  (ripe  in  Concord,  much  of  it),  wild  holly 
(turning),   Viburnum  nudum  (green),  mountain-ash. 

The  birds  which  I  noticed  were:  robins,  chewinks, 
F,  hyemalis,  song  sparrow,  nighthawk,  swallow  (a  few, 
probably  bam  swallow,  one  flying  over  the  extreme 
summit),  crows  (sometimes  flew  over,  though  mostly 
heard  in  the  woods  below),  wood  thrush  (heard  from 
woods  below);  and  saw  a  warbler  with  a  dark-marked 
breast  and  yellowish  angle  to  wing  and  white  throat. 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


1860]    THE   BIRDS   OF  THE   MOUNTAIN      33 

and  heard  a  note  once  like  a  very  large  and  powerful 
nuthatch.    Some  small  hawks. 

The  bird  peculiar  to  the  mountain  was  the  F.  hyema- 
lisy  and  perhaps  the  most  common,  flitting  over  the 
rocks,  unless  the  robin  and  chewink  were  as  common. 
These,  with  the  song  sparrow  and  wood  thrush,  were 
heard  regularly  each  morning.  I  saw  a  robin's  nest  in 
one  of  the  little  swamps.  The  wood  thrush  was  regu- 
larly heard  late  in  the  afternoon,  its  strain  coming  up 
from  the  woods  below  as  the  shadows  were  lengthening. 
But,  above  all,  this  was  an  excellent  place  to  observe 
the  habits  of  the  nighthawks.  They  were  heard  and 
seen  regularly  at  sunset,  —  one  night  it  was  at  7.10, 
or  exactly  at  sunset,  —  coming  upward  from  the  lower 
and  more  shaded  portion  of  the  rocky  surface  below 
our  camp,  with  their  spark  spark,  soon  answered  by  a 
companion,  for  they  seemed  always  to  hunt  in  pairs, 
—  yet  both  would  dive  and  boom  and,  according  to 
Wilson,  only  the  male  utters  this  sound.  They  pursued 
their  game  thus  a  short  distance  apart  and  some  sixty 
or  one  hundred  feet  above  the  gray  rocky  surface,  in 
the  twilight,  and  the  constant  spark  spark  seemed  to  be 
a  sort  of  call-note  to  advertise  each  other  of  their  neigh- 
borhood. Suddenly  one  would  hover  and  flutter  more 
stationarily  for  a  moment,  somewhat  like  a  kingfisher, 
and  then  dive  almost  perpendicularly  downward  with 
a  rush,  for  fifty  feet,  frequently  within  three  or  four 
rods  of  us,  and  the  loud  booming  sound  or  rip  was  made 
just  at  the  curve,  as  it  ceased  to  fall,  but  whether  vol- 
untarily or  involuntarily  I  know  not.  They  appeared 
.  to  be  diving  for  their  insect  prey.   What  eyes  they  must 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


34  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

have  to  be  able  to  discern  it  beneath  them  against  the 
rocks  in  the  twilight!  As  I  was  walking  about  the  camp, 
one  flew  low,  within  two  feet  of  the  surface,  about  me, 
and  lit  on  the  rock  within  three  rods  of  me,  and  uttered 
a  harsh  note  like  c-o-Wy  c-o-w,  —  hard  and  gritty  and 
allied  to  their  common  notes,  —  which  I  thought  ex- 
pressive of  anxiety,  or  to  alarm  me,  or  for  its  mate. 

I  suspect  that  their  booming  on  a  distant  part  of  the 
mountain  was  the  sound  which  I  heard  the  first  night 
which  was  like  very  distant  thunder,  or  the  fall  of  a  pile 
of  lumber. 

They  did  not  fly  or  boom  when  there  was  a  cloud  or 
fog,  and  ceased  pretty  early  in  the  night.  They  came 
up  from  the  same  quarter  —  the  shaded  rocks  below  — 
each  night,  two  of  them,  and  left  off  booming  about 
8  o'clock.  Whether  they  then  ceased  hunting  or  with- 
drew to  another  part  of  the  mountain,  I  know  not.  Yet 
I  heard  one  the  first  night  at  11.30  p.  m.,  but,  as  it  had 
been  a  rainy  day  and  did  not  clear  up  here  till  some  time 
late  in  the*  night,  it  may  have  been  compelled  to  do  its 
hunting  then.  They  began  to  boom  again  at  4  a.  m. 
(other  birds  about  4.30)  and  ceased  about  4.20.  By 
their  color  they  are  related  to  the  gray  rocks  over  which 
they  flit  and  circle. 

As  for  quadrupeds,  we  saw  none  on  the  summit  and 
only  one  small  gray  rabbit  at  the  base  of  the  mountain, 
but  we  saw  the  droppings  of  rabbits  all  over  the  moun- 
tain, and  they  must  be  the  prevailing  large  animal,  and 
we  heard  the  motions  probably  of  a  mouse  about  our 
camp  at  night.    We  also  found  the  skull  of  a  rodent 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]       QUADRUPEDS  AND   INSECTS  35 

larger  than  a  woodchuck  or  gray  rabbit,  and  the  tail- 
bones  (maybe  of  the  same)  some  half-dozen  inches  long, 
and  saw  a  large  quantity  of  dark-brown  oval  droppings 
{q,  v.,  preserved).  I  think  that  this  was  a  porcupine,  and 
I  hear  that  they  are  found  on  the  mountain.  Mr.  Wild 
saw  one  recently  dead  near  the  spring  some  sixteen 
years  ago.  I  saw  the  ordure  of  some  large  quadruped, 
probably  this,  on  the  rocks  in  the  pastures  beneath  the 
wood,  composed  chiefly  of  raspberry  seeds. 

As  for  insects:  There  were  countless  ants,  large  and 
middle-sized,  which  ran  over  our  bed  and  inside  our 
clothes.  They  swarmed  all  over  the  mountain.  Had 
young  in  the  dead  spruce  which  we  burned.  Saw  but 
half  a  dozen  mosquitoes.  Saw  two  or  three  common 
yellow  butterflies  and  some  larger  red-brown  ones,  and 
moths.  There  were  great  flies,  as  big  as  horse-flies,  with 
shining  black  abdomens  and  buff-colored  bases  to  their 
wings.  Disturbed  a  swarm  of  bees  in  a  dead  spruce  on 
the  ground,  but  they  disappeared  before  I  ascertained 
what  kind  they  were.  On  the  summit  one  noon,  i.  e.  on 
the  very  apex,  I  was  pestered  by  great  swarms  of  small 
black  wasps  or  winged  ants  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
long,  which  fluttered  about  and  settled  on  my  head  and 
face.  Heard  a  jine  (in  the  sod)  cricket,  a  dog-day  locust 
once  or  twice,  and  a  creaking  grasshopper. 

Saw  two  or  three  frogs,  —  one  large  Ranafontinalis  in 
that  rocky  pool  on  the  southwest  side,  where  I  saw  the 
large  spawn  which  I  supposed  to  be  bullfrog  spawn  two 
years  ago,  but  now  think  must  have  been  R.  fontinalis 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


36  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

spawn;  and  there  was  a  dark  pollywog  one  inch  long. 
This  frog  had  a  raised  Hne  on  each  side  of  back  and  was 
as  large  as  a  common  bullfrog.  I  also  heard  the  note 
once  of  some  familiar  large  frog.  The  one  or  two  smaller 
frogs  which  I  saw  elsewhere  were  perhaps  the  same. 

There  were  a  great  many  visitors  to  the  summit,  both 
by  the  south  and  north,  i.  e,  the  JaflFrey  and  Dublin 
paths,  but  they  did  not  turn  off  from  the  beaten  track. 
One  noon,  when  I  was  on  the  top,  I  counted  forty  men, 
women,  and  children  around  me,  and  more  were  con- 
stantly arriving  while  others  were  going.  Certainly  more 
than  one  hundred  ascended  in  a  day.  When  you  got 
within  thirty  rods  you  saw  them  seated  in  a  row  along 
the  gray  parapets,  like  the  inhabitants  of  a  castle  on  a 
gala-day;  and  when  you  behold  Monadnock's  blue 
summit  fifty  miles  off  in  the  horizon,  you  may  imagine 
it  covered  with  men,  women,  and  children  in  dresses  of 
all  colors,  like  an  observatory  on  a  muster-field.  They 
appeared  to  be  chiefly  mechanics  and  farmers'  boys  and 
girls  from  the  neighboring  towns.  The  young  men  sat 
in  rows  with  their  legs  dangling  over  the  precipice, 
squinting  through  spy-glasses  and  shouting  and  halloo- 
ing to  each  new  party  that  issued  from  the  woods  below. 
Some  were  playing  cards;  others  were  trying  to  see 
their  house  or  their  neighbor's.  Children  were  running 
about  and  playing  as  usual.  Indeed,  this  peak  in  plea- 
sant weather  is  the  most  trivial  place  in  New  England. 
There  are  probably  more  arrivals  daily  than  at  any  of  the 
White  Mountain  houses.  Several  were  busily  engraving 
their  names  on  the  rocks  with  cold-chisels,  whose  inces- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]       VISITORS  TO  THE   SUMMIT  37 

sant  clink  you  heard,  and  they  had  but  little  leisure  to 
look  off.  The  mountain  was  not  free  of  them  from  sun- 
rise to  sunset,  though  most  of  them  left  about  5  p.  m. 
At  almost  any  hour  of  the  day  they  were  seen  wending 
their  way  single  file  in  various  garb  up  or  down  the 
shelving  rocks  of  the  peak.  These  figures  on  the  sum- 
mit, seen  in  relief  against  the  sky  (from  our  camp), 
looked  taller  than  life.  I  saw  some  that  camped  there, 
by  moonlight,  one  night.  On  Sunday,  twenty  or  thirty, 
iat  least,  in  addition  to  the  visitors  to  the  peak,  came  up 
to  pick  blueberries,  and  we  heard  on  all  sides  the  rat- 
tling of  dishes  and  their  frequent  calls  to  each  other. 


-2'A^^ 


Scale  of  80  ro4s  to  an  Inch. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


38  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

The  rocky  area  —  or  summit  of  the  mountain  above 
the  forest  —  which  I  am  describing  is  of  an  irregular 
form  from  a  mile  and  a  half  to  two  miles  long,  north 
and  south,  by  three  quarters  to  a  mile  wide  at  the  widest 
part,  in  proportion  as  you  descend  lower  on  the  rocks. 

There  are  three  main  spurs,  viz.  the  northeast,  or 
chief,  one,  toward  Monadnock  Pond  and  the  village  of 
DubUn;  the  southerly,  to  Swan's  [?  ];  and  the  northerly, 
over  which  the  Dublin  path  runs.  These  afford  the 
three  longest  walks.  The  first  is  the  longest,  wildest, 
and  least-frequented,  and  rises  to  the  greatest  height  at 
a  distance  from  the  central  peak.  The  second  affords 
the  broadest  and  smoothest  walk.  The  third  is  the 
highest  of  all  at  first,  but  falls  off  directly.  There  are 
also  two  lesser  and  lower  spurs,  on  the  westerly  side,  — 
one  quite  short,  toward  Troy,  by  which  you  might  come 
up  from  that  side,  the  other  yet  lower,  but  longer,  from 
north  75°  west.  But  above  all,  for  walking,  there  is 
an  elevated  rocky  plateau,  so  to  call  it,  extending  to 
half  a  mile  east  of  the  summit,  or  about  a  hundred  rods 
east  of  the  ravine.  This  slopes  gently  toward  the  south 
and  east  by  successive  terraces  of  rock,  and  affords  the 
most  amusing  walking  of  any  part  of  the  mountain. 

The  most  interesting  precipices  are  on  the  south  side 
of  the  peak.  The  greatest  abruptness  of  descent  (from 
top  to  bottom)  is  on  the  west  side  between  the  two  lesser 
ravines. 

The  northeast  spur  (of  two  principal  summits  beyond 
the  swamp)  has  the  most  dead  spruce  on  it. 

The  handsome  ponds  near  the  mountain  are  a  long 
pond  chiefly  in  Jaffrey,  close  under  the  mountain  on  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    PONDS  SEEN  FROM  MONADNOCK    39 

east,  with  a  greatly  swelling  knoll  extending  into  it  on 
the  east  side;  Monadnock  Pond  in  Dublin,  said  to  be 
very  deep,  about  north-northeast  (between  the  north- 
east spur  and  Dublin  village);  a  large  pond  with  a  very 
white  beach  much  further  off  in  Nelson,  about  north 
(one  called  it  Breed's?);  Stone  Pond,  northwesterly, 
about  as  near  as  Monadnock  Pond.  Also  large  ponds 
in  Jaffrey,  Rindge,  Troy;  and  many  more  further  off. 

The  basis  of  my  map  was  the  distance  from  the  sum- 
mit to  the  second  camp,  measured  very  rudely  by  casting 
a  stone  before.  Pacing  the  distance  of  an  easy  cast,  I 
found  it  about  ten  rods,  and  thirteen  such  stone's  throws, 
or  one  hundred  and  thirty  rods,  carried  me  to  the  camp. 
As  I  had  the  course,  from  the  summit  and  from  the 
camp,  of  the  principal  points,  I  could  tell  the  rest  nearly 
enough.  It  was  about  fifty  rods  from  the  summit  to  the 
ravine  and  eighty  more  to  the  camp. 

It  was  undoubtedly  Saddleback  Mountain  which  I 
saw  about  S.  85°  W.  What  was  that  elevated  part  of 
the  Green  Mountains  about  N.  50°  W.,  which  one 
called  falsely  Camel's  Hump?  —  the  next  elevated 
summit  north  of  Saddleback. 

It  would  evidently  be  a  noble  walk  from  Watatic  to 
Goffstown  perchance,  over  the  Peterboro  mountains, 
along  the  very  backbone  of  this  part  of  New  Hampshire, 
—  the  most  novel  and  interesting  walk  that  I  can  think 
of  in  these  parts. 

They  who  simply  climb  to  the  peak  of  Monadnock 
have  seen  but  little  of  the  mountain.  I  came  not  to  look 
ojffrom  it,  but  to  look  at  it.  The  view  of  the  pinnacle 
itself  from  the  plateau  below  surpasses  any  view  which 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


40 


JOURNAL 


[Aug.  9 


you  get  from  the  summit.  It  is  indispensable  to  see  the 
top  itself  and  the  sierra  of  its  outline  from  one  side.  The 
great  charm  is  not  to  look  ojBf  from  a  height  but  to  walk 
over  this  novel  and  wonderful  rocky  surface.  Moreover, 
if  you  would  enjoy  the  prospect,  it  is,  methinks,  most 
interesting  when  you  look  from  the  edge  of  the  plateau 
immediately  down  into  the  valleys,  or  where  the  edge  of 
the  lichen-clad  rocks,  only  two  or  three  rods  from  you, 
is  seen  as  the  lower  frame  of  a  picture  of  green  fields, 
lakes,  and  woods,  suggesting  a  more  stupendous  precipice 
than  exists.  There  are  much  more  surprising  ejBfects  of 
this  nature  along  the  edge  of  the  plateau  than  on  the  sum- 
mit. It  is  remarkable  what  haste  the  visitors  make  to  get 
to  the  top  of  the  mountain  and  then  look  away  from  it. 

Northward  you  see  Ascutney  and  Kearsarge  Moun- 
tains, and  faintly  the  White  Mountains,  and  others 
more  northeast;  but  above  all,  toward  night,  the  Green 
Mountains. 

But  what  a  study  for  rocks  does  this  mountain-top 
ajBford!  The  rocks  of  the  pinnacle 
have  many  regular  nearly  right- 
angled  slants  to  the  southeast,  cov- 
ered with  the  dark-brown  (or  oli- 
vaceous) umbilicaria.  The  rocks  which  you  walk 
over  are  often  not  only  worn  smooth  and  slippery, 
but  grooved  out,  as  if  with  some  huge  rounded  tool, 
—         ^^^^  ^^   or    they    are    much    oftener 

>-/^  convex:  '^^^^N'V^ 

You  see  huge  buttresses  or  walls  — """"^^^^[^^^S^ 
put  up  by  Titans,  with  true  joints,  V"^ 

only  recently  loosened  by  an  earthquake  as  if  ready  to 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]         THE   MONADNOCK  ROCKS  41 

topple  down.    Some  of  the  lichen-clad  rocks  are  of  a  rude 
brick-loaf  form  or  small  cottage  form:  ^ 

You  see  large  boulders,  left  just  on  the  . ''  \' ''  *j 
edge  of  the  steep  descent  of  the  plateau, 
commonly  resting  on  a  few  small  stones,  as  if  the  Titans 
were  in  the  very  act  of  transporting  them  when  they  were 
interrupted;  some  left  standing  on  their  ends,  and  almost 
the  only  convenient  rocks  in  whose  shade  you  can  sit 
sometimes.  Often  you  come  to  a  long,  thin  rock,  two  or 
three  rods  long,  which  has  the  appearance  of  having  just 
been  split  into  underpinning-stone, — perfectly  straight- 
edged  and  parallel  pieces,  and  lying  as  it  fell,  ready  for 
use,  just  as  the  mason  leaves  it.  Post-stones,  door- 
stones,  etc.  There  were  evidences  of  recent  motion  as 
well  as  ancient. 

I  saw  on  the  flat  sloping  surface  of  rock  a  fresher 
white  space  exactly  the  size  and  form  of  a  rock  which 
was  lying  by  it  and  which  had  lately  covered  it.  What 
had  upset  it  ?  There  were  many  of  these  whitish  marks 
where  the  dead  sprtice  had  lain  but  was  now  decayed 
or  gone. 

The  rocks  were  not  only  coarsely  grooved  but  finely 
scratched  from  northwest  to  southeast,  commonly  about 
S.  10°  E.  (but  between  5°  and  20°  east,  or,  by  the  true 
meridian,  more  yet).^  I  could  have  steered  myself  in  a 
fog  by  them. 

Piles  of  stones  left  as  they  were  split  ready  for  the 

*  Hitchcock,  p.  387,  calls  the  rock  of  Monadnock  granite,  and  says 
the  scratches  are  north  and  south,  nearly,  and  very  striking.  Vide 
three  pages  forward. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


42  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

builder.  I  saw  one  perfect  triangular  hog-trough  — 
except  that  it  wanted  one  end  —  and 
which  would  have  been  quite  portable  and 
convenient  in  a  farmer's  yard.  The  core, 
four  or  five  feet  long,  lay  one  side. 
The  rocks  are  very  commonly  in  terraces  with  a 
smooth  rounded  edge  to  each.  The  most  remarkable 
of  these  terraces  that  I  noticed  was  between  the  second 
camp  and  the  summit,  say  some  forty  rods  from  the 
camp.  These  terraces  were  some  six  rods  long  and  six 
to  ten  feet  wide,  but  the  top  slanting  considerably  back 
into  the  mountain,  and  they  were  about  four  or  five  feet 

high  each.  There 
were  four  such  in 
succession  here, 
running  S.  30° 
E.  The  edges  of 
these  terraces,  here  and  commonly,  were  rounded  and 
grooved  like  the  rocks  at  a  waterfall,  as  if  water  and 
gravel  had  long  washed  over  them. 

Some  rocks  were  /f/-  ///  /)yi)  i"T\  shaped  like 
huge  doughnuts:  w?—  ^^^^-.^^  The  edges 
of  cliffs  were  frequently  lumpishly  rounded,  covered  with 
lichens,  so  that  you  could  not  stand  near  the  edge.  The 
extreme  east  and  northeast  parts  of  the  plateau,  espe- 
cially near  the  little  meadow,  are  the  most  interesting 
for  the  forms  of  rocks.  Sometimes  you  see  where  a 
huge  oblong  square  stone  has  been  taken  out  from  the 
edge  of  a  terrace,  leaving  a  space  which  looks  like  a 
giant's  grave  unoccupied. 

On  the  west  side  the  summit  the  strata  ran  north  and 


'  Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]         THE  MONADNOCK  ROCKS  48 

south  and  dipped  to  east  about  60°  with  ^ 

the  horizon.    There  were  broad  veins      >^       ^^^v 

of  white  quartz  (sometimes  one  foot 

wide)  running  directly  many  rods. 

Near  the  camp  there  was  a  succession  of  great  rocks, 
their    comers    rounded  semi-  — 

circulariy  and  grooved  at  the 
same  time  like  the  capital  of  a 
column  reversed.  The  most 
rugged  walking  is  on  the  steep  westeriy  slope. 

We  had  a  grand  view,  especially  after  sunset,  as  it  grew 
dark,  of  the  sierra  of  the  summit's  outline  west  of  us,  — 
the  teeth  of  the  sierra  often  turned  back  toward  the 
summit,  '■ —  when  the  rocks  were  uniformly  black  in  the 
shade  and  seen  against  the  twilight. 

In  Morse's  Gazetteer  (1797)  it  is  said,  "Its  base  is 
five  miles  in  diameter  north  to  south,  and  three  from 
east  to  west.  ...  Its  summit  is  a  bald  rock."  By  the 
summit  he  meant  the  very  topmost  part,  which,  it  seems, 
was  always  a  "  bald  rock." 

There  were  all  over  the  rocky  summit  peculiar  yel- 
lowish gravelly  spots  which  I  called  scars,  commonly  of 
an  oval  form,  not  in  low  but  elevated  places,  and  looking 
as  if  a  little  mound  had  been  cutoff  there.  #^^-* 
The  edges  of  these,  on  the  very  pinnacle  -:T*'  'ij' 
of  the  mountain,  were  formed  of  the  Juncus  ^^-^//"^ 
trifdibSy  now  gone  to  seed.  If  they  had  been  in  hollows, 
you  would  have  said  that  they  were  the  bottom  of  little 
pools,  now  dried  up,  where  the  gravel  and  stones  had 
been  washed  bare.  I  am  not  certain  about  their  origin. 
They  suggested  some  force  which  had  suddenly  cut 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


44  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

ofif  and  washed  or  blown  away  the  surface  there,  like 
a  thunder-spout  [sie]^  or  lightning,  or  a  hurricane.  Such 
spots  were  very  numerous,  and  had  the  appearance  of  a 
fresh  scar. 

Much,  if  not  most,  of  the  rock  appears  to  be  what 
Hitchcock  describes  and  represents  as  graphic  granite 
(vide  his  book,  page  681). 

Hitchcock  says  (page  389)  that  he  learns  from  his 
assistant,  Abraham  Jenkins,  Jr.,  that  ''on  the  sides  of 
and  around  this  mountain  [Monadnock]  *  diluvial 
grooves  and  scratches  are  common;  having  a  direction 
about  N.  10°  W.  and  S.  10°  E.  The  summit  of  the 
mountain,  which  rises  in  an  insulated  manner  to  the 
height  of  3250  feet,  is  a  naked  rock  of  gneiss  of  several 
acres  in  extent,  and  this  is  thoroughly  grooved  and 
scored.  One  groove  measured  fourteen  feet  in  width, 
and  two  feet  deep;  and  others  are  scarcely  of  less  size. 
Their  direction  at  the  summit,  by  a  mean  of  nearly  thirty 
measurements  with  a  compass,  is  nearly  north  and 
south." 

According  to  Heywood's  Gazetteer,  the  mountain  is 
"talc,  mica,  slate,  distinctly  stratified,"  and  is  3718  feet 
high. 

Though  there  is  little  or  no  soil  upon  the  rocks,  owing 
apparently  to  the  coolness,  if  not  moisture,  you  have 
rather  the  vegetation  of  a  swamp  than  that  of  sterile 
rocky  ground  below.  For  example,  of  the  six  prevailing 
trees  and  shrubs  —  low  blueberry,  black  spruce,  lamb- 
kill,  black  choke-berry,  wild  holly,  and  Viburnum  nudum 
—  all  but  the  first  are  characteristic  of  swampy  and  low 
*  [The  brackets  are  Thoreau's.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BOGS  AND   POOLS  45 

ground,  to  say  nothing  of  the  commonness  of  wet  mosses, 
the  two  species  of  cotton-grass,  and  some  other  plants 
of  the  swamp  and  meadow.  Little  meadows  and  swamps 
are  scattered  all  over  the  mountaip  upon  and  amid  the 
rocks.  You  are  continually  struck  with  the  proximity 
of  gray  and  lichen-clad  rock  and  mossy  bog.  You  tread 
alternately  on  wet  moss,  into  which  you  sink,  and  dry, 
lichen-covered  rocks.  You  will  be  surprised  to  see  the 
vegetation  of  a  swamp  on  a  little  shelf  only  a  foot  or  two 
over,  —  a  b(^  a  foot  wide  with  cotton-grass  waving 
over  it  in  the  midst  of  cladonia  lichens  so  dry  as  to  bum 
like  tinder.  The  edges  of  the  little  swamps  —  if  not  their 
middle  —  are  commonly  white  with  cotton-grass.  The 
Arenaria  Grcerdandica  often  belies  its  name  here,  grow- 
ing in  wet  places  as  often  as  in  dry  ones,  together  with 
eriophorum. 

One  of  the  grandest  views  of  the  summit  is  from  the 
east  side  of  the  central  meadow  of  the  plateau,  which  I 
called  the  Gulf,  just  beneath  the  pinnacle  on  the  east, 
with  the  meadow  in  the  foreground. 

Water  stands  in  shallow  pools  on  almost  every  rocky 
shelf.  The  largest  pool  of  open  water  which  I  found  was 
on  the  southwest  side  of  the  summit,  and  was  four  rods 
long  by  fifteen  to  twenty  feet  in  width  and  a  foot  deep. 
Wool-  and  cotton-grass  grew  around  it,  and  there  was  a 
dark  green  moss  and  some  mud  at  the  bottom.  There 
was  a  smoother  similar  pool  on  the  next  shelf  above  it. 
These  were  about  the  same  size  in  June  and  in  August, 
and  apparently  never  dry  up.  There  was  also  the  one 
in  which  I  bathed,  near  the  northeast  little  meadow.  I 
had  a  delicious  bath  there,  though  the  water  was  warm. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


46  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

but  there  was  a  pleasant  strong  and  drying  wind  blow- 
ing over  the  ridge,  and  when  I  had  bathed,  the  rock  felt 
like  plush  to  my  feet. 

The  cladonia  lichens  were  so  dry  at  midday,  even  the 
day  after  rain,  that  they  served  as  tinder  to  kindle  our 
fire,  —  indeed,  we  were  somewhat  troubled  to  prevent 
the  fire  from  spreading  amid  them,  —  yet  at  night,  even 
before  sundown,  and  morning,  when  we  got  our  supper 
and  breakfast,  they  would  not  bum  thus,  having  ab- 
sorbed moisture.  They  had  then  a  cool  and  slightly 
damp  feeling. 

Every  evening,  excepting,  perhaps,  the  Sunday  even- 
ing after  the  rain  of  the  day  before,  we  saw  not  long 
after  sundown  a  slight  scud  or  mist  begin  to  strike  the 
summit  above  us,  though  it  was  perfectly  fair  weather 
generally  and  there  were  no  clouds  over  the  lower 
country. 

First,  perhaps,  looking  up,  we  would  see  a  small  scud 
not  more  than  a  rod  in  diameter  drifting  just  over  the 
apex  of  the  mountain.  In  a  few  minutes  more  a  some- 
what larger  one  would  suddeYily  make  its  appearance, 
and  perhaps  strike  the  topmost  rocks  and  invest  them 
for  a  moment,  but  as  rapidly  drift  ofif  northeast  and 
disappear.  Looking  into  the  southwest  sky,  which  was 
clear,  we  would  see  all  at  once  a  small  cloud  or  scud  a 
rod  in  diameter  beginning  to  form  half  a  mile  from  the 
summit,  and  as  it  came  on  it  rapidly  grew  in  a  mysteri- 
ous manner,  till  it  was  fifty  rods  or  more  in  diameter, 
and  draped  and  concealed  for  a  few  moments  all  the 
summit  above  us,  and  then  passed  off  and  disappeared 
northeastward  just  as  it  had  come  on.    So  that  it  ap- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE  CLOUDS  OF  THE  MOUNTAIN    47 

peared  as  if  the  clouds  had  been  attracted  by  the  sum- 
mit. They  also  seemed  to  rise  a  little  as  they  approached 
it,  and  endeavor  to  go  over  without  striking.  I  gave  this 
account  of  it  to  myself.  They  were  not  attracted  to  the 
summit,  but  simply  generated  there  and  not  elsewhere. 
There  would  be  a  warm  southwest  wind  blowing  which 
was  full  of  moisture,  alike  over  the  mountain  and  all  the 
rest  of  the  country.  The  summit  of  the  mountain  being 
cool,  this  warm  air  began  to  feel  its  influence  at  half  a 
mile  distance,  and  its  moisture  was  rapidly  condensed 
into  a  small  cloud,  which  expanded  as  it.advanced,  and 
evaporated  again  as  it  left  the  summit.  This  would  go 
on,  apparently,  as  the  coolness  of  the  mountain  in- 
creased, and  generally  the  cloud  or  mist  reached  down 
as  low  as  our  camp  from  time  to  time,  in  the  night. 

One  evening,  as  I  was  watching  these  small  clouds 
forming  and  dissolving  about  the  summit  of  our  moun- 
tain, the  sun  having  just  set,  I  cast  my  eyes  toward  the 
dim  bluish  outline  of  the  Green  Mountains  in  the  clear 
red  evening  sky,  and,  to  my  delight,  I  detected  exactly 
over  the  summit  of  Saddleback  Mountain,  some  sixty 
miles  distant,  its  own  little  cloud,  shaped  like  a  parasol 
and  answering  to  that  which  capped  our  mountain, 
though  in  this  case  it  did  not  rest  on  the  mountain,  but 
was  considerably  above  it,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  west 
horizon  for  forty  miles  was  cloudless.  ^^ 

I  was  convinced  that  it  was  the  local  ^      "^^^ 
cloud  of  that  mountain  because  it  was  directly  over  the 
summit,  was  of  small  size  and  of  umbrella  form  answer- 
ing to  the  summit,  and  there  was  no  other  cloud  to  be 
seen  in  that  horizon.     It  was  a  beautiful  and  serene 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


48  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

object,  a  sort  of  fortunate  isle,  —  like  any  other  cloud 
in  the  sunset  sky. 

That  the  summit  of  this  mountain  is  cool  appears 
from  the  fact  that  the  days  which  we  spent  there  were 
remarkably  warm  ones  in  the  country  below,  and  were 
the  common  subject  of  conversation  when  we  came 
down,  yet  we  had  known  nothing  about  it,  and  went 
warmly  clad  with  comfort  all  the  while,  as  we  had  not 
done  immediately  before  and  did  not  after  we  descended. 
We  immediately  perceived  the  difference  as  we  de- 
scended. It  was  warm  enough  for  us  on  the  summit,  and 
often,  in  the  sheltered  southeast  hollows,  too  warm,  as 
we  happened  to  be  clad,  but  on  the  summits  and  ridges 
it  chanced  that  there  was  always  wind,  and  in  this  wind 
it  was  commonly  cooler  than  we  liked.  Also  our  water, 
which  was  evidently  rain-water  caught  in  the  rocks 
and  retained  by  the  moss,  was  cool  enough  if  it  were 
only  in  a  little  crevice  under  the  shelter  of  a  rock,  i.  e,  out 
of  the  sun. 

Yet,  though  it  was  thus  cool,  and  there  was  this  scud 
or  mist  on  the  top  more  or  less  every  night,  there  was,  as 
we  should  say,  no  dew  on  the  summit  any  morning. 
The  lichens,  blueberry  bushes,  etc.,  did  not  feel  wet, 
nor  did  they  wet  you  in  the  least,  however  early  you 
walked  in  them.  I  rose  [?]  to  observe  the  sunrise  and 
picked  blueberries  every  morning  before  sunrise,  and 
saw  no  dew,  only  once  some  minute  dewdrops  on  some 
low  grass-tips,  and  that  was  amid  the  wet  moss  of  a 
little  bog,  but  the  lambkill  and  blueberry  bushes  above 
it  were  not  wet.  Yet  the  Thursday  when  we  left,  we 
found  that  though  there  was  no  dew  on  the  summit  there 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]     THE  WATER  OF  THE   SUMMIT        40 

was  a  very  heavy  dew  in  the  pastures  below,  and  our 
feet  and  clothes  were  completely  wet  with  it,  as  much  as 
if  we  had  stood  in  water. 

I  should  say  that  there  were  no  true  springs  (?)  on  the 
summit,  but  simply  rain-water  caught  in  the  hollows 
of  the  rocks  or  retained  by  the  moss.  I  observed  that 
the  well  which  we  made  for  washing  —  by  digging  up 
the  moss  with  our  hands  —  half-  dried  up  in  the  sun  by 
day,  but  filled  up  again  at  night. 

The  principal  stream  on  the  summit,  —  if  not  the  only 
one,  —  in  the  rocky  portion  described,  was  on  the  south- 
east side,  between  our  two  camps,  though  it  did  not 
distinctly  show  itself  at  present  except  a  little  below 
our  elevation.  For  the  most  part  you  could  only  see 
that  water  had  flowed  there  between  and  under  the  rocks. 

I  fancied  once  or  twice  that  it  was  warmer  at  10  p.  m. 
than  it  was  immediately  after  sunset. 

The  voices  of  those  climbing  the  summit  were  heard 
remarkably  far.  We  heard  much  of  the  ordinary  con- 
versation of  those  climbing  the  peak  above  us  a  hundred 
rods  ofif,  and  we  could  hear  those  on  the  summit,  or  a 
hundred  and  thirty  rods  off,  when  they  shouted.  I  heard 
a  party  of  ladies  and  gentlemen  laughing  and  talking 
there  in  the  night  (they  were  camping  there),  though  I 
did  not  hear  what  they  said.  We  heard,  or  imagined 
that  we  heard,  from  time  to  time,  as  we  lay  in  our  camp 
by  day,  an  occasional  chinking  or  clinking  sound  as  if 
made  by  one  stone  on  another. 

In  clear  weather,  in  going  from  one  part  of  the  sum- 
mit to  another  it  would  be  most  convenient  to  steer  by 
distant  objects,  as  towns  or  mountains  or  lakes,  rather 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


50  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

than  by  features  of  the  summit  itself,  since  the  for- 
mer are  most  easily  recognized  and  almost  always  in 
sight. 

I  saw  what  I  took  to  be  a  thistle-down  going  low  over 
the  summit,  and  might  have  caught  it,  though  I  saw  no 
thistle  on  the  mountain-top  nor  any  other  plant  from 
which  this  could  have  come.  (I  have  no  doubt  it  was  a 
thistle  by  its  appearance  and  its  season.)  It  had  evi- 
dently come  up  from  the  country  below.  Thb  shows 
that  it  may  cany  its  seeds  to  higher  regions  than  it 
inhabits,  and  it  suggests  how  the  seeds  of  some  moun- 
tain plants,  as  the  Solidago  thyrsoidea,  may  be  conveyed 
from  mountain  to  mountain,  also  other  solidagos,  asters, 
epilobiums,  willows,  etc. 

The  descent  through  the  woods  from  our  first  camp 
to  the  site  of  the  shanty  is  from  a  third  to  half  a  mile. 
You  then  come  to  the  raspberry  and  fern  scented  region. 
There  were  some  raspberries  still  left,  but  they  were  fast 
dropping  ofif. 

There  was  a  good  view  of  the  mountain  from  just 
above  the  pond,  some  two  miles  from  Troy.  The  vary- 
ing outline  of  a  mountain  is  due  to  the  crest  of  different 
spurs,  as  seen  from  different  sides.  Even  a  small  spur, 
if  you  are  near,  may  conceal  a  much  larger  one  and 
give  its  own  outline  to  the  mountain,  and  at  the  same 
time  one  which  extends  directly  toward  you  is  not 
noticed  at  all,  however  important,  though,  as  you  travel 
round  the  mountain,  this  may  gradually  come  into  view 
and  finally  its  crest  may  be  one  half  or  more  of  the  out- 
line presented.  It  may  partly  account  for  the  peaked  or 
pyramidal  form  of  mountains  that  one  crest  may  be 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]         OUTFIT  AND   PROVISIONS  51 

seen  through  the  gaps  of  another  and  so  fill  up  the 
line. 

Think  I  saw  leersia  or  cut-grass  in  bloom  in  Troy. 

I  carried  on   this  excursion   the  following  articles 
(beside  what  I  wore),  viz. :  — 

One  shirt. 

One  pwiir  socks. 

Two  pocket-handkerchiefs. 

One  thick  waistcoat. 

One  flannel  shirt  (had  no  occasion  to  use  it). 

India-rubber  coat. 

Three  bosoms. 

Towel  and  soap. 

Pins,  needles,  thread. 

A  blanket  (would  have  been  more  convenient  if  stitched  up  in 

the  form  of  a  bag). 
Cap  for  the  night. 
Map  and  compass. 
Spy-glass  and  microscope  and  tape. 
Saw  and  hatchet. 
Plant-book  and  blotting-paper. 
Paper  and  stamps. 
Botany. 

Insect  and  lichen  boxes. 
Jack-knife. 
Matches. 

Waste  paper  and  twine. 
Iron  spoon  and  pint  dipper  with  handle. 

All  in  a  knapsack. 
Umbrella. 

N.  B.  —  Add  to  the  above  next  time  a  small  bag,  which  may  be 
stuffed  with  moss  or  the  like  for  a  pillow. 

For  provision  for  one,  six  days,  carried :  — 

2  J  lbs.  of  salt  beef  and  tongue.        Take  only  salt  beef  next  time, 

2  to  3  lbs. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


52  JOURNAL  [Aug.  9 

18  hard-boiled  eggs.  Omit  eggs, 

^i  lbs.  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  2  lbs.  of  sugar  would  have  done. 

About  J  lb.  of  tea.  §  as  much  would  have  done. 

2  lbs.  hard-bread.  The  right  amount  of    bread, 
i  loaf  home-made  bread  and  but  might  have  taken  more 

a  piece  of  cake.  home-made  and  more  solid 

sweet  cake. 

N,  B,  —  Carry  salt  (or  some  of  it)  in  a  wafer-box.    Also  some 
sugar  in  a  small  box. 


N.  B,  —  Observe  next  time :  the  source  of  the  stream 
which  crosses  the  path;  what  species  of  swallow  flies 
over  mountain ;  what  the  grass  which  gives  the  pastures 
a  yellowish  color  seen  from  the  summit. 

The  morning  would  probably  never  be  ushered  in 
there  by  the  chipping  of  the  chip-bird,  but  that  of  the 
F.  hyemalis  instead,  —  a  dry,  hard  occasional  chirp, 
more  in  harmony  with  the  rocks.  There  you  do  not 
hear  the  link  of  the  bobolink,  the  chatter  of  red-wings 
and  crow  blackbirds,  the  wood  pewee,  the  twitter  of  the 
kingbird,  the  half  [sic]  strains  of  the  vireo,  the  passing 
goldfinch,  or  the  occasional  plaintive  note  of  the  blue- 
bird, all  which  are  now  commonly  heard  in  the  lowlands. 

That  area  is  literally  a  chaos,  an  example  of  what  the 
earth  was  before  it  was  finished.^ 

Do  I  not  hear  the  mole  cricket  at  night  ? 

Aug.  10.  ^p.  M. — Air,  84°;  Boiling  Spring  this  after- 
noon., 46°;  Brister's,  49°;  or  where  there  is  little  or  no 
1  Vide  Aug.  26  and  iS,  and  Sept.  1. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1860]  A  HOARY  BAT  53 

surface  water  the  same  as  in  spring.  Walden  is  at  sur- 
face 80°  (air  over  it  76). 

Aster  dumosus  and  pennyroyal  out;  how  long  ?  Sand 
cherry  is  well  ripe  —  some  of  it  —  and  tolerable,  better 
than  the  red  cherry  or  choke-cherry.  Juncus  paradoxus^ 
that  large  and  late  juncus  (tailed),  as  in  Hubbard's  Close 
and  on  island  above  monument  and  in  Great  Meadows, 
say  ten  days. 

Saw  yesterday  in  Fitzwilliam  from  the  railroad  a  pond 
covered  with  white  lilies  uniformly  about  half  the  size 
of  ours! 

Saw  this  evening,  behind  a  picture  in  R.  W.  E.'s 
dining-room,  the  hoary  bat.  First  heard  it  fluttering  at 
dusk,  it  having  hung  there  all  day.  Its  rear  parts  cov- 
ered with  a  fine  hoary  down. 

Aug.  11.  Panicum  capillare;  how  long?  Cyperus 
strigosus;  how  long? 

Aug,  12.  The  river-bank  is  past  height.  The  button- 
bush  is  not  common  now,  though  the  clethra  is  in  prime. 
The  black  willow  hardly  ceases  to  shed  its  down  when 
it  looks  yellowish.  Setaria  glauca,  some  days.  Elymus 
Virginicus,  some  days.  Andropogon  furcatus  (in 
meadow);  how  long?  Probably  before  scopariv^, 
Zizania  several  days. 

River  at  5  p.  m.  three  and  three  quarters  inches  be- 
low summer  level. 

Panicum  glabrum  (not  sanguinale?  —  our  common); 
how  long  ?  The  upper  glume  equals  the  flower,  yet  it 
has  many  spikes. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


54  JOURNAL  [Aug.  13 

Aug,  13.  P.  M.  —  To  Great  Meadows  and  Gowing's 
Swamp. 

Purple  grass  (Eragrostis  pectinacea)^  two  or  three 
days.  E.  capUlaris,  say  as  much.  Andropogon  scoparius^ 
a  day  or  two.  Calamagrostis  coarctata^  not  quite. 
Glyceria  obtu^a,  well  out;  say  several  days. 

Some  of  the  little  cranberries  at  Gowing's  Swamp 
appear  to  have  been  frost-bitten.  Also  the  blue-eyed 
grass,  which  is  now  black-topped. 

Hear  the  steady  shrill  of  the  alder  locust. 

Rain  this  forenoon;  windy  in  afternoon. 

Aug,  14.    Heavy  rain. 

Aug,  15.    Fair  weather. 
See  a  blue  heron. 

Aug,  16.  2  p.  M.  —  River  about  ten  and  a  half  inches 
above  summer  level. 

Apparently  the  Canada  plum  began  to  be  ripe  about 
the  10th. 

Aug.  17.    We  have  cooler  nights  of  late. 

See  at  Pout's  Nest  two  solitary  tattlers,  as  I  have  seen 
them  about  the  muddy  shore  of  Gourgas  Pond-hole  and 
in  the  Great  Meadow  pools.  They  seem  to  like  a  mud- 
dier shore  than  the  peetweet. 

Hear  a  whip-poor-will  sing  to-night. 

Aug,  18.  Tlie  note  of  the  wood  pewee  sounds  promi- 
nent of  late. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1800]    THE  RIVER-BANK  PAST  PRIME        55 

Aug.  19.  Examine  now  more  at  length  that  smooth, 
turnip-scented  brassica  which  is  a  pest  in  some  grain- 
fields.  Formerly  in  Stow's  land;  this  year  in  Warren's, 
on  the  Walden  road.  To-day  I  see  it  in  Minot  Pratt's, 
with  the  wild  radish,  which  is  a  paler  yellow  and  a 
rougher  plant.  I  thought  it  before  the  B.  campestris^  but 
Persoon  puts  that  under  brassicas  with  siliquis  tetraedris^ 
which  this  is  not,  but,  for  aught  that  appears,  it  agrees 
with  his  B,  Napus,  closely  allied,  i.  e.  wild  rape.  Elliot 
speaks  of  this  as  introduced  here.  Vide  Patent  OflSce 
Report  for  1853  and  **  Vegetable  Kingdom,"  page  179. 
The  B,  campestris  also  is  called  rape.* 

Leersia  (cut-grass)  abundantly  out,  apparently  several 
days.  - 

Aug,  21.    Soaking  rains,  and  in  the  nigh't. 
A  few  fireflies  still  at  night. 

Aug.  22.    P.  M.  —  Row  to  Bittern  Cliff. 

Now,  when  the  mikania  is  conspicuous,  the  bank  is 
past  prime,'  for  lilies  are  far  gone,  the  pontederia  is  past 
prime,  willows  and  button-bushes  begin  to  look  the 
worse  for  the  wear  thus  early,  —  the  lower  or  older 
leaves  of  the  willows  are  turned  yellow  and  decaying,  — 
and  many  of  the  meadows  are  shorn.  Yet  now  is  the  time 
for  the  cardinal-flower.  TTie  already,  methinks,  yellow- 
ing willows  and  button-bushes,  the  half-shorn  meadows, 
the  higher  water  on  their  edges,  with  wool-grass  stand- 
ing over  it,  with  the  notes  of  flitting  bobolinks  and  red- 
wings of  this  yeaVy  in  rustling  flocks,  all  tell  of  the  fall. 
.    »  Vide  Sept.  8.  »  Vide  Sept.  5. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


56  JOURNAL  [Aug.  22 

I  hear  two  or  three  times  behind  me  the  loud  creaking 
note  of  a  wood  duck  which  I  have  scared  up,  which  goes 
to  settle  in  a  new  place. 

Some  deciduous  trees  are  now  at  least  as  dark  as  ever- 
greens, the  alders  are  darker  than  white  pines,  and  as 
dark  as  pitch,  as  I  now  see  them. 

I  try  the  temperature  of  the  river  at  Bittern  ClifiF,  the 
deep  place.  The  air  over  river  at  4.30  is  81°;  the  water 
at  the  top,  78°;  poured  from  a  bottle  (into  a  dipper) 
which  I  let  lie  on  the  bottom  half  an  hour,  73°,  —  or  5° 
difiFerence.  When  I  merely  sunk  the  thermometer  and 
pulled  it  up  rapidly  it  stood  73t,  though  not  in  exactly 
the  same  place,  —  say  two  rods  ofiF. 

When  I  used  to  pick  the  berries  for  dinner  oh  the  East 
Quarter  hills  I  did  not  eat  one  till  I  had  done,  for  going 
a-berrying  implies  more  things  than  eating  the  berries. 
They  at  home  got  only  the  pudding :  I  got  the  forenoon 
out  of  doors,  and  the  appetite  for  the  pudding. 

It  is  true,  as  is  said,  that  we  have  as  good  a  right  to 
make  berries  private  property  as  to  make  grass  and 
trees  such;  but  what  I  chiefly  regret  is  the, in  effect,  dog- 
in-the-manger  result,  for  at  the  same  time  that  we 
exclude  mankind  from  gathering  berries  in  our  field, 
we  exclude  them  from  gathering  health  and  happiness 
and  inspiration  and  a  hundred  other  far  finer  and  nobler 
fruits  than  berries,  which  yet  we  shall  not  gather  our- 
selves there,  nor  even  carry  to  market.  We  strike  only 
one  more  blow  at  a  simple  and  wholesome  relation  to 
nature.  As  long  as  the  berries  are  free  to  all  comers  they 
are  beautiful,  though  they  may  be  few  and  small,  but 
tell  me  that  is  a  blueberry  swamp  which  somebody  has 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    PROPERTY  RIGHTS  IN  BERRIES       57 

hired,  and  I  shall  not  want  even  to  look  at  it.  In  laying 
claim  for  the  first  time  to  the  spontaneous  fruit  of  our 
pastures  we  are,  accordingly,  aware  of  a  little  meanness 
inevitably,  and  the  gay  berry  party  whom  we  turn  away 
naturally  look  down  on  and  despise  us.  If  it  were  left 
to  the  berries  to  say  who  should  have  them,  is  it  not 
likely  that  they  would  prefer  to  be  gathered  by  the  party 
of  children  in  the  hay-rigging,  who  have  come  to  have 
a  good  time  merely  ? 

I  do  not  see  clearly  that  these  successive  losses  are 
ever  quite  made  up  to  us.  This  is  one  of  the  taxes  which 
we  pay  for  having  a  railroad.  Almost  all  our  improve- 
ments, so  called,  tend  to  convert  the  country  into  the  town. 

TTiis  suggests  what  origin  and  foundation  many  of  our 
laws  and  institutions  have,  and  I  do  not  say  this  by  way 
of  complaining  of  this  particular  custom.  Not  that  I 
love  Csesar  less,  but  Rome  more. 

Yes,  and  a  potato-field  is  a  rich  sight  to  me,  even  when 
the  vines  are  half  decayed  and  blackened  and  their 
decajdng  scent  fills  the  air,  though  unsightly  to  many; 
for  it  speaks  then  more  loudly  and  distinctly  of  potatoes 
than  ever.  I  see  their  weather-beaten  brows  peeping  out 
of  the  hills  here  and  there,  for  the  earth  cannot  contain 
them,  when  the  creak  of  the  cricket  and  the  shrilling  of 
the  locust  prevail  more  and  more,  in  the  sunny  end  of 
summer.  There  the  confident  husbandman  lets  them 
lie  for  the  present,  even  as  if  he  knew  not  of  them,  or  as 
if  that  property  were  insured,  so  carelessly  rich  he  is. 
He  relaxes  now  his  labors  somewhat,  seeing  to  their 
successful  end,  and  takes  long  mornings,  perchance, 
stretched  in  the  shade  of  his  ancestral  elms. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


58  JOURNAL  [Aug.  ^^ 

Returning  down  the  river,  when  I  get  to  Clamshell  I 
see  great  flocks  of  the  young  red-wings  and  some  crow 
blackbirds  on  the  trees  and  the  ground.  TTiey  are  not 
very  shy,  but  only  timid,  as  inexperienced  birds  are.  I 
do  not  know  what  they  find  to  eat  on  this  half  bare,  half 
grassy  bank,  but  there  they  hop  about  by  hundreds, 
while  as  many  more  are  perched  on  the  neighboring 
trees;  and  from  time  to  time  they  all  rise  from  the  earth 
and  wheel  and  withdraw  to  the  trees,  but  soon  return 
to  the  ground  again.  TTie  red-wings  are  almost  reddish 
about  the  throat.  The  crow  blackbirds  have  some  notes 
now  just  like  the  first  croaks  of  the  wood  frog  in  the 
spring. 

Sorghum  nutans  well  out  (behind  the  birch);  how 
long?    Paspalum  ditto. 

The  recent  heavy  rains  have  washed  away  the  bank 
here  considerably,  and  it  looks  and  smells  more  mouldy 
with  human  relics  than  ever.  I  therefore  find  myself 
inevitably  exploring  it.  On  the  edge  of  the  ravine  whose 
beginning  I  witnessed,  one  foot  beneath  the  surface  and 
just  over  a  layer  some  three  inches  thick  of  pure  shells 
and  ashes,  —  a  gray-white  line  on  the  face  of  the  cliflf.  — 
I  find  several  pieces  of  Indian  pottery  with  a  rude  orna- 
ment on  it,  not  much  more  red  than  the  earth  itself. 
Looking  farther,  I  find  more  fragments,  which  have 
been  washed  down  the  sandy  slope  in  a  stream,  as  far  as 
ten  feet.  I  find  in  all  thirty-one  pieces,  averaging  an  inch 
in  diameter  and  about  a  third  of  an  inch  thick.  Several 
of  them  made  part  of  the  upper  edge  of  the  vessel,  and 
have  a  rude  ornament  encircling  them  in  three  rows, 
as  if  pricked  with  a  stick  in  the  soft  clay,  and  also  an- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDIAN  RELICS 


59 


other  line  on  the  narrow  edge  itself.  At  first  I  thought 
to  match  the  pieces  again,  like  a  geographical  puzzle, 
but  I  did  not  find  that  any  I  [got]  belonged  together. 
The  vessel  must  have  been  quite  laige,  and  I  have  not 
got  nearly  all  of  it.  It  appears  to  have  been  an  impure 
clay  with  much  sand  and  gravel  in  it,  and  I  think  a  little 
pounded  shell.  It  is  [of]  very  unequal  thickness,  some 
of  the  unadorned  pieces  (probably  the  bottom)  being 
half  an  inch  thick,  while  near  the  edge  it  is  not  more 
than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  There  was  under  this 
spot  and  under  the  layer  of  shells  a  manifest  hoUowness 
in  the  ground,  not  yet  filled  up.  I  find  many  small  pieces 
of  bone  in  the  soil  of  this  bank,  probably  of  animals  the 
Indians  ate. 


In  another 
bank,  in  the 
laiger  heap  of 
been  exposed, 
delicate  stone 
form  and  size: 
stone.  It  is  very 
on  each  side 
the  middle  is 
an  eighth  of  an 
suspect  that  this 
open  clams  with. 

It  is  curious 
pected    to   find 
and  in  this  very  // 
I  reached  it  (ij^ 
Indeed,  I  never 


part  of  the 
midst  of  a  much 
shells  which  has 
I  found  a 
tool  of  this 
of  a  soft  slate- 
thin  and  sharp 
edge,  and  in 
not  more  than 
inch  thick.  I 
was    used    to 

that  I  had  ex- 
as  much  as  this, 
spot  too,  before 
mean  the  pot), 
find  a  remark- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


60  JOURNAL  [Aug.  22 

able  Indian  relic  —  and  I  find  a  good  many  —  but 
I  have  first  divined  its  existence,  and  planned  the  dis- 
covery of  it.  Frequently  I  have  told  myself  distinctly 
what  it  was  to  be  before  I  found  it. 

The  river  is  fifteen  and  three  quarters  inches  above 
summer  level.* 

Aug,  24.  This  and  yesterday  very  foggy,  dogdayish 
days.  Yesterday  the  fog  lasted  till  nine  or  ten,  and 
to-day,  in  the  afternoon,  it  amounts  to  a  considerable 
drizzling  rain. 

P.  M.  —  To  Walden  to  get  its  temperature.  The  air 
is  only  66  (in  the  mizzling  rain  the  23d  it  was  78);  the 
water  at  top,  IS""  (the  23d  also  75).  What  I  had  sunk  to 
the  bottom  in  the  middle,  where  a  hundred  feet  deep  by 
my  line,  left  there  half  an  hour,  then  pulled  up  and 
poured  into  a  quart  dipper,  stood  at  53**.'  I  tried  the 
same  experiment  yesterday,  but  then  in  my  haste  was 
uncertain  whether  it  was  not  51**;  certain  that  a  little 
later  it  was  54^  So  53**  it  must  be  for  the  present.  I  may 
have  been  two  or  more  minutes  pulling  up  the  line  so  as 
to  prevent  its  snarling.  Therefore  I  think  the  water 
must  have  acquired  a  temperature  two  or  three  degrees 
higher  than  it  had  at  the  bottom  by  the  time  I  tried  it. 
So  it  appears  that  the  bottom  of  Walden  has,  in  fact,  the 
temperature  of  a  genuine  and  cold  spring,  or  probably 
is  of  the  same  temperature  with  the  average  mean  tem- 
perature of  the  earth,  and,  I  suspect,  the  same  all  the 
year.  This  shows  that  springs  need  not  come  from  a 
very  great  depth  in  order  to  be  cold.  What  various  tem- 
»  And  about  the  same  the  25th.  »  Vide  28th. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   WALDEN  WATER  61 

peratures,  then,  the  fishes  of  this  pond  can  enjoy!  They 
require  no  other  refrigerator  than  their  deeps  aflford. 
They  can  in  a  few,  moments  sink  to  winter  or  rise  to 
summer.  Walden,  then,  must  be  included  among  the 
springs,  but  it  is  one  which  has  no  outlet,  —  is  a  well 
rather.  It  reaches  down  to  where  the  temperature  of 
the  earth  is  unchanging.  It  is  not  a  superficial  pond,  — 
not  in  the  mere  skin  of  the  earth.  It  goes  deeper.  How 
much  this  varied  temperature  must  have  to  do  with  the 
distribution  of  the  fishes  in  it!  The  few  trout  must 
oftenest  go  down  below  in  sunmier. 

At  tlie  bottom  of  the  deep  cove  I  see  much  black  birch 
and  red  maple  just  sprung  up,  and  their  seeds  have  evi- 
dently been  drifted  to  this  shore.  The  little  birches  are 
already  fragrant. 

Aug.  25.    2  p.  M.  —  To  Clamshell. 

See  a  large  hen-hawk  sailing  over  Hubbard's  meadow 
and  Clamshell,  soaring  at  last  very  high  and  toward  the 
north.  At  last  it  returns  southward,  at  that  height  im- 
pelling itself  steadily  and  ^.^^3^  swiftly  forward  with 
its  wings  set  in  this  wise :  A^  /^  1  i.  e,  more  curved,  or, 
as  it  were,  trailing  be-  v  -^  y  hind,  without  ap- 
parent motion.    It  thus  moves  half  a  mile  directly. 

The  front-rank  polygonum  is  apparently  in  prime; 
low,  solid,  of  a  pinkish  rose-color.  Notice  the  small 
botrychium's  leaf. 

As  I  rc>w  by,  see  a  green  bittern  near  by  standing  erect 
on  Monroe's  boat.  Finding  that  it  is  observed,  it  draws 
in  its  head  and  stoops  to  conceal  itself.  When  it  flies 
it  seems  to  have  no  tail.  It  allowed  me  to  approach  so 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


62  JOURNAL  [Aug.  25 

near,  apparently  being  deceived  by  some  tame  ducks 
there. 

Aug.  26.    2  p.  m.  —  To  White  Pond. 

The  leersia  or  cut-grass  in  the  old  pad  ditch  by  path 
beyond  Hubbard's  Grove. 

As  I  cross  the  upland  sprout-land  south  of  Ledum 
Swamp,  I  see  that  the  fine  sedge  there  is  half  withered 
and  brown,  and  it  is  too  late  for  that  cheerful  yellow 
gleam. 

Thread  my  way  through  the  blueberry  swamp  in  front 
of  Martial  Miles's.  The  high  blueberries  far  above  your 
head  in  the  shade  of  the  swamp  retain  their  freshness 
and  coolness  a  long  time.  Little  blue  sacks  full  of  swampy 
nectar  and  ambrosia  commingled,  like  schnapps  or 
what-not,  that  you  break  with  your  teeth.  Is  not  this 
the  origin  of  the  German  name  as  given  by  Gerard  ?  But 
there  is  far  the  greatest  show  of  choke-berries  there,  rich 
to  see.  I  wade  and  press  my  way  through  endless  thick- 
ets of  these  untasted  berries,  their  lower  leaves  now  fast 
reddening.  Yet  they  have  an  agreeable  juice,  —  though 
the  pulp  may  be  rejected,  —  and  perhaps  they  might  be 
made  into  wine. 

The  shrilling  of  the  alder  locust  is  the  solder  that  welds 
these  autumn  days  together.  All  bushes  {arhusta) 
resound  with  their  song,  and  you  wade  up  to  your  ears 
in  it.  Methinks  the  burden  of  their  song  is  the  countless 
harvests  of  the  year,  —  berries,  grain,  and  other  fruits. 

I  am  interested  by  the  little  ridge  or  cliflF  of  foam 
which  the  breeze  has  raised  along  the  White  Pond  shore, 
the  westerly  breeze  causing  the  wavelets  to  lapse  on  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        FOAM   ON   A   POND-SHORE  63 

shore  and  mix  the  water  with  the  air  gradually.  Though 
this  is  named  White  Pond  from  the  whiteness  of  its 
sandy  shore,  the  line  of  foam  is  infinitely  whiter,  far 
whiter  than  any  sand.  This  reminds  me  how  far  a  white 
pond-shore,  i.  e.  the  sand,  may  be  seen.  I  saw  from 
M onadnock  the  north  shore  of  a  large  pond  in  Nelson 
which  was  some  eight  miles  north  by  the  map,  very 
distinct  to  every  one  who  looked  that  way.  Perhaps  in 
such  cases  a  stronger  light  is  reflected  from  the  water  on 
to  the  shore.  The  highest  ridge  of  foam  is  where  it  is 
held  or  retained  and  so  built  up  gradually  behind  some 
brush  or  log  on  the  shore,  by  additions  below,  into  a 
little  cliff,  like  a  sponge.  In  other  places  it  is  rolled  like 
a  muff.  It  is  all  light  and  trembling  in  the  air. 

Thus  we  are  amused  with  foam,  a  hybrid  between 
two  elements.  A  breeze  comes  and  gradually  mingles 
some  of  the  water  with  the  air.  It  is,  as  it  were,  the 
aspiration  of  the  pond  to  soar  into  the  air.  The  debatable 
ground  between  two  oceans,  the  earth,  or  shore,  being 
only  the  point  of  resistance,  where  they  are  held  to  mingle. 

See  nowadays  the  pretty  little  Castile-soap  galls  on 
the  shrub  oaks.  Their  figure  /^vyS^  ^s  like  the  In- 
dian girdle  of  triangular  points.  uA/vv-w  Also  other 
galls,  yellowish  and  red  on  dif-   ^-^^^   ferent  sides. 

The  pussy  clover  heads  were  most  interesting,  large, 
and  puffy,  say  ten  days  ago. 

I  notice  milkweed  in  a  hollow  in  the  field  by  the  cove 
at  White  Pond,  as  if  the  seed  had  settled  there,  owing 
to  the  lull  of  the  wind. 

It  is  remarkable  how  commonly  you  see  the  thistle- 
down sailing  just  over  water  (as  I  do  after  this  —  the  2d 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


64  JOURNAL  [Aug.  26 

of  September  —  at  Walden).  I  see  there,  i.  e,  at  Walden, 
at  5  p.  M.,  September  2d,  many  seedless  thistle-downs 
sailing  about  a  foot  above  the  water,  and  some  in  it,  as  if 
there  was  a  current  just  above  the  surface  which  pre- 
vented their  falling  or  rising.  They  are  probably  wafted 
to  the  water  because  there  is  more  air  over  water. 

Aug,  27.    P.  M.  —  To  Ministerial  Swamp. 

Clear  weather  within  a  day  or  two  after  the  thitk  dog- 
days.  The  nights  have  been  cooler  of  late,  but  the  heat 
of  the  sun  by  day  has  been  more  local  and  palpable,  as 
it  were.  It  is  as  if  the  sun  touched  your  shoulder  with  a 
hot  hand  while  there  are  cool  veins  in  the  air.  That  is, 
I  am  from  time  to  time  surprised  and  oppressed  by  a 
melting  heat  on  my  back  in  the  sun,  though  I  am  sure  of 
a  greater  general  coolness.  The  heat  is  less  like  that  of 
an  apartment  equably  warmed,  and  more  like  that  [of] 
a  red-hot  iron  carried  about  and  which  you  occasionally 
come  near. 

See  one  of  the  shrilling  green  alder  locusts  on  the 
under  side  of  a  grape  leaf.  Its  body  is  about  three  quar- 
ters of  an  inch  or  less  in  length;  antennae  and  all,  two 
inches.  Its  wings  are  at  first  perpendicular  above  its 
shoulders,  it  apparently  having  just  ceased  shrilling. 
Transparent,  with  lines  crossing  them. 

Notice  now  that  sour-tasting  white  (creamy,  for  con- 
sistence) incrustation  between  and  on  the  berries  of  the 
smooth  sumach,  like  frostwork.  Is  it  not  an  exudation  ? 
or  produced  by  the  bite  of  an  insect  ? 

Calamagrostis  coarctata  grass  by  Harrington's  Pool, 
Ministerial   Swamp,   say   one   week    (not   in   prime). 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  SUNSET   ON   WALDEN  65 

Muhlenbergia  glomerata^  same  place,  say  ten  days,  or 
past  prime. 

Gather  some  of  those  large  and  late  low  blackberries 
(as  at  Thrush  Alley)  which  run  over  the  thin  herbage, 
green  nfoss,  etc.,  in  open  pitch  pine  woods. 

Aug,  28.  About  6.20  p.  m.  paddled  on  Walden. 
Near  the  shore  I  see  at  least  one  little  skater  to  a  foot, 
further  off  one  to  a  yard,  and  in  middle  not  more  than 
one  to  a  rod;  but  I  see  no  gyrinus  at  all  here  to-night. 

At  first  the  sky  was  completely  overcast,  but,  just 
before  setting,  the  sun  came  out  into  a  clear  space  in  the 
horizon  and  fell  on  the  east  end  of  the  pond  and 
the  hillside,  and  this  sudden  blaze  of  light  on  the  still 
very  fresh  green  leaves  was  a  wonderful  contrast  with 
the  previous  and  still  surrounding  darkness.  Indeed,  the 
bright  sunlight  was  at  this  angle  reflected  from  the  water 
at  the  east  end  —  while  I  in  the  middle  was  in  the  shade 
of  the  east  woods  —  up  under  the  verdure  of  the  bushes 
and  trees  on  the  shore  and  on  Pine  Hill,  especially  to  the 
tender  under  sides  and  to  the  lower  leaves  not  often  lit 
up.  Thus  a  double  amount  of  light  fell  on  them,  and  the 
most  vivid  and  varied  shades  of  green  were  revealed.  I 
never  saw  such  a  green  glow  before.  The  outline  of  each 
shrub  and  tree  was  a  more  or  less  distinct  downy  or 
silvery  crescent,  where  the  light  was  reflected  from  the 
under  side  of  the  most  downy,  or  newest,  leaves,  —  as 
I  should  not  have  seen  it  at  midday,  —  either  because 
the  light  fell  more  on  the  under  sides  of  the  leaves,  being 
so  horizontal  and  also  reflected  upward,  or  because  the 
leaves  stood  more  erect  at  this  hour  and  after  a  cloudy 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


66  JOURNAL  [Aug.  28 

day,  or  for  both  reasons.  The  lit  water  at  the  east  end 
was  invisible  to  me,  or  no  more  than  a  line,  but  the  shore 
itself  was  a  very  distinct  whitish  line.  When  the  sun  fell 
lower,  and  the  sunlight  no  longer  fell  on  the  pond,  the 
green  blaze  of  the  hillside  was  at  once  very  much  dimin- 
ished, because  the  light  was  no  longer  reflected  upward 
to  it. 

At  sunset  the  air  over  the  pond  is  62  +  ;  the  water  at 
the  top,  74°;  poured  from  a  stoppled  bottle  which  lay 
at  the  bottom  where  one  hundred  feet  deep,  twenty  or 
thirty  minutes,  55°  (and  the  same  when  drawn  up  in  an 
open  bottle  which  lay  five  minutes  at  the  bottom) ;  in  an 
open  bottle  drawn  up  from  about  fifty  feet  depth  (there) 
or  more,  after  staying  there  five  minutes,  63°.  This  about 
half  the  whole  difference  between  the  top  and  bottom, 
so  that  the  temperature  seems  to  fall  regularly  as  you 
descend,  at  the  rate  of  about  one  degree  to  five  feet.  When 
I  let  the  stoppled  bottle  down  quickly,  the  cork  was  forc;ed 
out  before  it  got  to  the  bottom,  when  [  ?  ]  the  water  drawn 
up  stood  at  66°.  Hence  it  seemed  to  be  owing  to  the 
rising  of  the  warmer  water  and  air  in  the  bottle.  Five 
minutes  with  the  open  bottle  at  the  bottom  was  as  good 
as  twenty  with  it  stoppled. 

I  found  it  2°  warmer  than  the  24th,  though  the  air  was 
then  4°  warmer  than  now.  Possibly,  comparing  one  day 
with  the  next,  it  is  warmer  at  the  bottom  in  a  cold  day 
and  colder  in  a  warm  day,  because  when  the  surface  is 
cooled  it  mixes  more  with  the  bottom,  while  the  average 
temperature  is  very  slightly  changed. 

The  Lycopodium  inundatum  conmion  by  Harrington's 
mud-hole,  Ministerial  Swamp. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]       THE  HAIRY  HUCKLEBERRY  67 

Hear  the  night-warbler  and  whip-poor-will. 

There  was  no  prolonged  melody  of  birds  on  the  sum- 
mit of  Monadnock.  They  for  the  most  part  emitted 
sounds  there  more  in  harmony  with  the  silent  rocks,  — 
a  faint  chipping  or  chinking,  often  somewhat  as  of  two 
stones  struck  together. 

Aug.  30.    Surveying  Minott's  land. 

Am  surprised  to  find  on  his  hard  land,  where  he  once 
raised  potatoes,  the  hairy  huckleberry,  which  before  I 
had  seen  in  swamps  only.  Here,  too,  they  are  more 
edible,  not  so  insipid,  yet  not  quite  edible  generally. 
They  are  improved,  you  would  say,  by  the  firmer 
ground.  The  berries  are  in  longer  racemes  or  clusters 
than  any  of  our  huckleberries.  They  are  the  prevailing 
berry  all  over  this  field.  They  are  oblong  and  black,  and 
the  thick,  shaggy-feeling  coats  left  in  the  mouth,  are  far 
from  agreeable  to  the  palate.   Are  now  in  prime. 

Also  find,  in  one  of  his  ditches  where  peat  was  dug  (or 
mud),  the  Lemna  polyrhiza;  not  found  in  Concord  be- 
fore, and  said  not  to  blossom  in  this  country.  I  found 
it  at  Pushaw.  Also  the  Muhlenbergia  glomerata  near 
the  lemna,  or  southeast  of  it. 

The  hairy  huckleberry  and  muhlenbergia,  I  think, 
grow  here  still  because  Minott  is  an  old-fashioned  man 
and  has  not  scrubbed  up  and  improved  his  land  as  many, 
or  most,  have.  It  is  in  a  wilder  and  more  primitive  con- 
dition. The  very  huckleberries  are  shaggy  there.  There 
was  only  one  straight  side  to  his  land,  and  that  I  cut 
through  a  dense  swamp.  The  fences  are  all  meandering, 
just  as  they  were  at  least  in  1746,  when  it  was  described. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


68  JOURNAL  [Aug.  30 

The  lemna  reminds  me  strongly  of  that  greenish  or 
yellowish  scum  which  I  see  mantling  some  bam-yard 
pools.  It  makes  the  same  impression  on  the  eye  at  a 
little  distance.  You  would  say  it  was  the  next  higher 
stage  of  vegetation.  The  smallest  of  pcwfo,  one  sixth  of  an 
inch  in  diameter  and,  like  the  white  lily  pad,  crimson 
beneath.  It  completely  covers  two  or  three  ditches  under 
the  edge  of  the  wood  there,  except  where  a  frog  has 
jumped  in  and  revealed  the  dark  water,  —  and  maybe 
there  rests,  his  green  snout  concealed  amid  it;  but  it 
soon  closes  over  him  again  when  he  has  dived.  These 
minute  green  scales  completely  cover  some  ditches, 
except  where  a  careless  frog  has  leapt  in  or  swam  across, 
and  rent  the  veil. 

There  is  also,  floating  in  little  masses,  a  small  ranun- 
culus-like plant,  flattish-stemmed  with  small  forks, 
some  of  it  made  into  minute  caddis-cases.  Perhaps  it 
was  cut  up  by  some  creature  at  the  bottom.    Vide  press. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


II 

SEPTEMBER,  1860 

(JET.  43) 

Sept  1.    P.  M.  —  To  Walden. 

Saw  a  fish  hawk  yesterday  up  the  Assabet.  In  one 
position  it  flew  just  like  a  swallow;  of  the  same  form  as 
it  flew. 

We  could  not  judge  correctly  of  distances  on  the 
mountain,  but  greatly  exaggerated  them.  That  surface 
was  so  novel,  —  suggested  so  many  thoughts,  —  and 
also  so  uneven,  a  few  steps  sufficing  to  conceal  the  least 
ground,  as  if  it  were  half  a  mile  away,  that  we  would 
have  an  impression  as  if  we  had  travelled  a  mile  when 
we  had  come  only  forty  rods.  We  no  longer  thought  and 
reasoned  as  in  the  plain. 

Now  see  many  birds  about  E.  Hubbard's  elder  hedge, 
—  bobolinks,  kingbirds,  pigeon  woodpeckers,  —  and 
not  elsewhere. 

Many  pine  stipules  fallen  yesterday.  Also  see  them  on 
Walden  to-day. 

Hear  that  F.  Hayden  saw  and  heard  geese  a  fortnight 
ago! 

I  see  within  an  oak  stump  on  the  shore  of  Walden 
tomato  plants  six  or  eight  inches  high,  as  I  found  them 
formerly  about  this  pond  in  a  different  place.  Since 
they  do  not  bear  fruit  the  seed  must  be  annually  brought 
here  by  birds,  yet  I  do  not  see  them  pecking  the  toma- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


70  JOURNAL  [Sept.  1 

toes  in  our  gardens,  and  this  is  a  mile  and  a  half  from  the 
village  and  half  a  mile  from  the  nearest  house  in  Lin- 
coln. 

River  about  eight  inches  above  summer  level  yester- 
day. 

We  are  so  accustomed  to  see  another  forest  spring  up 
immediately  as  a  matter  of  course,  whether  from  the 
stump  or  from  the  seed,  when  a  forest  is  cut  down,  never 
troubling  about  the  succession,  that  we  hardly  associate 
the  seed  with  the  tree,  and  do  not  anticipate  the  time 
when  this  regular  succession  will  cease  and  we  shall  be 
obliged  to  plant,  as  they  do  in  all  old  countries.  The 
planters  of  Europe  must  have  a  very  different,  a  much 
correcter,  notion  of  the  value  of  the  seed  of  forest  trees 
than  we.  To  speak  generally,  they  know  that  the  for- 
est trees  spring  from  seeds,  as  we  do  of  apples  and  pears, 
but  we  know  only  that  they  come  out  of  the  earth. 

See  how  artfully  the  seed  of  a  cherry  is  placed  in 
order  that  a  bird  may  be  compelled  to  transport  it.  It 
is  placed  in  the  very  midst  of  a  tempting  pericarp,  so  that 
the  creature  that  would  devour  a  cherry  must  take  a 
stone  into  its  mouth.  The  bird  is  bribed  with  the  peri- 
carp to  take  the  stone  with  it  and  do  this  little  service 
for  Nature.  Cherries  are  especially  birds'  food,  and 
many  kinds  are  called  birds'  cherry,  and  unless  we  plant 
the  seeds  occasionally,  I  shall  think  the  birds  have  the 
best  right  to  them.  Thus  a  bird's  wing  is  added  to  the 
cherry-stone  which  was  wingless,  and  it  does  not  wait 
for  winds  to  transport  it.  If  you  ever  ate  a  cherry,  and 
did  not  make  two  bites  of  it,  you  must  have  perceived 
it.  There  it  is,  right  in  the  midst  of  the  luscious  morsel, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  DISSEMINATION  71 

an  earthy  residuum  left  on  the  tongue.  And  some  wild  y 
men  and  children  instinctively  swallow  it,  like  the  birds, 
as  the  shortest  way  to  get  rid  of  it.  And  the  conse- 
quence is  that  cherries  not  only  g{ow  here  but  there,  and 
I  know  of  some  handsome  young  English  cherries 
growing  naturally  in  our  woods,  which  I  think  of  trans- 
planting back  again  to  my  garden.  If  the  seed  had  been 
placed  in  a  leaf,  or  at  the  root,  it  would  not  have  got 
transported  thus.  Consider  how  many  seeds  of  plants 
we  take  into  our  mouths.  Even  stones  as  big  as  peas,  a 
dozen  at  once.' 

The  treatment  of  forests  is  a  very  different  question 
to  us  and  to  the  English.  There  is  a  great  difference 
between  replanting  the  cleared  land  from  the  super- 
abundance of  seed  which  is  produced  in  the  forest  around 
it,  which  will  soon  be  done  by  nature  alone  if  we  do  not 
interfere,  and  the  planting  of  land  the  greater  part  of 
which  has  been  cleared  for  more  than  a  thousand  years. 

Sept,  2.   P.  M.  —  To  Annursnack. 

Solidago  nemoralis  apparently  hi  prime,  and  S.  stricta. 
The  former  covers  A.  Hosmer's  secluded  turtle  field 
near  the  bridge,  together  with  johnswort,  now  merely 
lingering. 

Sept  3.    P.  M.  —  To  Bateman's  Pond. 

2  p.  M.  — River  six  and  seven  eighths  above  [sum- 
mer level]. 

Here  is  a  beautiful,  and  perhaps  first  decidedly 
autumnal,  day,  —  a  cloudless  sky,  a  clear  air,  with, 
*  [Excurgians,  p.  188;  Riv.  230,  231.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


72  JOURNAL  [Sept.  3 

maybe,  veins  of  coolness.  As  you  look  toward  the  sun, 
the  [sic]  shines  more  than  in  the  spring.  The  dense  fresh 
green  grass  which  has  sprung  up  since  it  was  mowed,  on 
most  ground,  reflects  a  blaze  of  light,  as  if  it  were  morn- 
ing all  the  day.  The  meads  and  slopes  are  enamelled  with 
it,  for  there  has  been  no  drought  nor  withering.  We  see 
the  smokes  of  burnings  on  various  sides.  The  farmers 
are  thus  clearing  up  their  pastures,  —  some,  it  may  be, 
in  preparation  for  plowing.  Though  it  is  warm  enough, 
I  notice  again  the  swarms  of  fuzzy  gnats  dancing  in 
the  cooler  air,  which  also  is  decidedly  autumnal. 

See  on  the  two  pear  trees  by  the  Boze  cellar  ripe 
pears,  some  ripe  several  days.  Most  are  bitter,  others 
mealy,  but  one  was  quite  sweet  and  good,  of  middling 
size,  and  prettier  than  most  cultivated  ones.  It  had  a 
few  faint  streaks  of  red  and  was  exceeding  wax-like. 

Sept  4.    P.  M.  —  To  Conantum. 

At  my  Swamp  Brook  crossing  at  Willow  Bay,  I  see 
where  a  great  many  little  red  maples  have  sprung  up  in 
a  potato-field,  apparently  since  the  last  plowing  or  culti- 
vating this  year.  They  extend  more  or  less  thickly  as 
much  as  eleven  rods  in  a  northwest  direction  from  a 
small  tree,  the  only  red  maple  in  that  neighborhood. 
And  it  is  evidently  owing  to  the  land  having  been  culti- 
vated this  year  that  the  seed  vegetated  there;  otherwise 
there  would  now  be  no  evidence  that  any  such  seeds 
had  fallen  here.  Last  year  and  for  many  years  it  has 
been  a  pasture.  It  is  evident  that  land  may  be  kept  as  a 
pasture  and  covered  with  grass  any  number  of  years, 
and  though  there  are  maples  adjacent  to  it,  none  of  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  MIKANIA  73 

seed  will  catch  in  it;  but  at  last  it  is  plowed,  and  this 
year  the  seed  which  falls  on  it  germinates,  and  if  it 
chances  not  to  be  plowed  again,  and  cattle  are  kept  out, 
you  soon  have  a  maple  wood  there.  So  of  other  light- 
seeded  trees. 

It  is  cooler  these  days  and  nights,  and  I  move  into  an 
eastern  chamber  in  the  morning,  that  I  may  sit  in  the 
sun.  The  water,  too,  is  cooler  when  I  bathe  in  it,  and  I 
am  reminded  that  this  recreation  has  its  period.  I  feel 
like  a  melon  or  other  fruit  laid  in  the  sun  to  ripen.  I 
grow,  not  gray,  but  yellow. 

Saw  flocks  of  pigeons  the  £d  and  3d.  I  see  and  hear 
on  Conantum  an  upland  plover.  The  goldfinch  is  very 
busy  pulling  the  thistle  to  pieces. 

What  I  have  called  Muhlenbergia  sobolifera  is  in 
prime  (say  a  week) ;  the  M.  Mexicana  not  quite  (say  in 
two  or  three  days). 

Sej>t  5,    P.  M.  —  To  BalFs  Hill. 

The  brink  of  the  river  ^  is  still  quite  interesting  in 
some  respects,  and  to  some  eyes  more  interesting  than 
ever.  Tliough  the  willows  and  button-bushes  have 
already  assumed  an  autumnal  hue,  and  the  pontederia 
is  extensively  crisped  and  blackened,  the  dense  masses 
of  mikania,  now,  it  may  be,  paler  than  before,  are  per- 
haps more  remarkable  than  ever.  I  see  some  masses  of 
it,  overhanging  the  deep  water  and  completely  conceal- 
ing the  bush  that  supports  them,  which  are  as  rich  a 
sight  as  any  flower  we  have,  —  little  terraces  of  contigu- 
ous corymbs,  like  mignonette  ( ?  ).  Also  the  dodder  is 
*  Vide  Aug.  22d. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


74  JOURNAL  [Sept.  5 

more  revealed,  also  draping  the  brink  over  the  water. 
The  mikania  is  sometimes  looped  seven  or  eight  feet 
high  to  a  tree  above  the  bushes,  —  a  manifest  vine,  with 
its  light-colored  corymbs  at  intervals. 

See  the  little  dippers  back.  Did  I  not  see*  a  marsh 
hawk  in  imperfect  plumage  ?  Quite  brown,  with  some 
white  midway  the  wings,  and  tips  of  wings  black  ? 

What  further  adds  to  the  beauty  of  the  bank  is  the 
hibiscus,  in  prime,  and  the  great  bidens. 

Having  walked  through  a  quantity  of  desmodium 
under  Ball's  Hill,  by  the  shore  there  {Marilandicum  or 
rigidum)j  we  found  our  pants  covered  with  its  seeds  to 
a  remarkable  and  amusing  degree.  These  green  scales 
closely  covering  and  greening  my  legs  reminded  me  of 
the  lemna  on  a  ditch.  It  amounted  to  a  kind  of  coat  of 
mail.  It  was  the  event  of  our  walk,  and  we  were  proud 
to  wear  this  badge,  as  if  he  were  the  most  distinguished 
who  had  the  most  on  his  clothes.  My  companion  ex- 
pressed a  certain  superstitious  feeling  about  it,  for  he 
said  he  thought  it  would  not  be  right  to  walk  intention- 
ally amid  the  desmodium  so  as  to  get  more  of  the  ticks 
on  us,  nor  yet  to  pick  them  off,  but  they  must  be  carried 
about  till  they  are  rubbed  oflF  accidentally.  I  saw  that 
Nature's  design  was  furthered  even  by  his  superstition. 

Sept,  6.  The  willows  and  button-bushes  have  very 
rapidly  yellowed  since  I  noticed  them  August  22d.  I 
think  it  was  the  25th  of  August  that  I  found  the  lower 
or  older  leaves  of  the  willow  twigs  decidedly  and  rapidly 
yellowing  and  decaying  on  a  near  inspection.  Now  the 
change  is  conspicuous  at  a  distance. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BRASSICA  75 

Sept  7.  P.  M.  —  To  Cardinal  Shore. 

I  see  many  seedling  shrub  oaks  springing  up  in 
Potter's  field  by  the  swamp-side,  some  (of  last  year)  in 
the  open  pasture,  but  many  more  in  the  birch  wood  half  a 
dozen  rods  west  from  the  shrub  oaks  by  the  path.  The 
former  were  dropped  by  the  way.  They  plant  in  birch 
woods  as  in  pines.  This  small  birch  wood  has  been  a 
retreat  for  squirrels  and  birds.  When  I  examine  the 
little  oaks  in  the  open  land  there  is  always  an  eflfete  acorn 
with  them. 

Common  rose  hips  as  handsome  as  ever. 

Sept  8.    To  Lowell  via  Boston. 

Rainy  day. 

Pursh's  [sic]  *  Brassica  Napus  is  *'  radice  caulescente 
fusiformi,  fol.  laevibus,  superioribus  cordato-lanceolatis 
amplexicaulibus,  inferioribus  lyratis  dentatis."  Fre- 
quently found  wild.  The  lower  leaves  of  mine  are  con- 
siderably bristly.  Sowerby's  Botany  at  Cambridge  says 
of  B.  campestrisy  "Pods  upright,  cylindrical,  or  very 
obscurely  quadrangular,  veiny,  the  seeds  slightly  pro- 
jecting, the  beak  awl-shaped,  striated,  square  at  its 
base."  B,  Napus^  —  "  Pod  on  a  slender  stalk,  spread- 
ing, round,  beaded,  with  an  angular  point."  Mine  is 
apparently  B.  Napus,  judging  from  pods,  for  the  lower 
leaves  are  all  eaten.  Vide  young  plants  in  spring.^ 

Sept  9.  In  Lowell.  —  My  host  says  that  the  ther- 
mometer was  at  80°  yesterday  morning,  and  this  morn- 
ing is  at  52°.    Sudden  coolness. 

*  [The  quotation  is  from  Persoon's  Synopsis  Plantarum.] 
»  Vide  back,  Aug.  19th. 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


76  JOURNAL  [Sept.  9 

Clears  up  in  afternoon,  and  I  walk  down  the  Merri- 
mack on  the  north  bank.  I  see  very  large*  plants  of  the 
lanceolate  thistle,  four  feet  high  and  very  branching. 
Also  Aster  cordata  with  the  corymbosus. 

Concord  River  has  a  high  and  hard  bank  at  its 
mouth,  maybe  thirty  feet  high  on  the  east  side;  and  my 
host  thinks  it  was  originally  about  as  high  on  the  west 
side,  where  now  it  is  much  lower  and  flat,  having  been 
dug  down.  There  is  a  small  isle  in  the  middle  of  the 
mouth.  There  are  rips  in  the  Merrimack  just  below  the 
mouth  of  the  Concord.  There  is  a  fall  and  dam  in  the 
Concord  at  what  was  Kurd's  factory, — the  principal  fall 
on  the  Concord,  in  Lowell,  —  one  at  a  bleachery  above, 
and  at  Whipple's,  —  three  in  all  below  Billerica  dam. 

Sept  10.   Lowell  to  Boston  and  Concord. 

There  was  a  frost  this  morning,  as  my  host,  who  keeps 
a  market,  informed  me. 

Leaving  Lowell  at  7  a.  m..  in  the  cars,  I  observed  and 
admired  the  dew  on  a  fine  grass  in  the  meadows,  which 
was  almost  as  white  and  silvery  as  frost  when  the  rays  of 
the  newly  risen  sun  fell  on  it.  Some  of  it  was  probably  the 
frost  of  the  morning  melted.  I  saw  that  this  phenome- 
non was  confined  to  one  species  of  grass,  which  grew  in 
narrow  curving  lines  and  small  patches  along  the  edges 
of  the  meadows  or  lowest  ground,  —  a  grass  with  very 
fine  stems  and  branches,  which  held  the  dew;  in  short, 
that  it  was  what  I  had  falsely  called  Eragrostis  capillariSy 
but  which  is  probably  the  Sporobolus  serotinus^  almost 
the  only,  if  not  the  only,  grass  there  in  its  prime.  And 
thus  this  plant  has  its  day.   Owing  to  the  number  of  its 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  "DEW-GRASS"  77 

very  fine  branches,  now  in  their  prime,  it  holds  the  dew 
like  a  cobweb,  —  a  clear  drop  at  the  end  and  lesser  drops 
or  beads  all  along  the  fine  branches  and  stems.  It  grows 
on  the  higher  parts  of  the  meadows,  where  other  herbage 
is  thin,  and  is  the  less  apt  to  be  cut ;  and,  seen  toward  the 
sun  not  long  after  sunrise,  it  is  very  conspicuous  and 
bright  a  quarter  of  a  mile  oflF,  like  frostwork.  Call  it 
dew-grass.    I  find  its  hyaline  seed.^ 

Almost  every  plant,  however  humble,  has  thus  its  day, 
and  sooner  or  later  becomes  the  characteristic  feature  of 
some  part  of  the  landscape  or  other. 

Almost  all  other  grasses  are  now  either  cut  or  wither- 
ing, and  are,  beside,  so  coarse  comparatively  that  they 
can  never  present  this  phenomenon.  It  is  only  a  grass 
that  is  in  its  full  vigor,  as  well  as  fine-branched  (capil- 
lary), that  can  thus  attract  and  uphold  the  dew.  This  is 
noticed  about  the  time  the  firsrt;  frosts  come. 

If  you  sit  at  an  open  attic  window  almost  anywhere, 
about  the  20th  of  September,  you  will  see  many  a 
milkweed  down  go  sailing  by  on  a  level  with  you,  — 
though  commonly  it  has  lost  its  freight,  —  notwithstand- 
ing that  you  may  not  know  of  any  of  these  plants  grow- 
ing in  your  neighborhood. 

My  host,  yesterday,  told  me  that  he  was  accustomed 
once  to  chase  a  black  fox  *  from  Lowell  over  this  way 
and  lost  him  at  Chelmsford.  Had  heard  of  him  within 
about  six  years.  A  Carlisle  man  also  tells  me  since  that 
this  fox  used  to  turn  off  and  run  northwest  from  Chelms- 
ford, but  that  he  would  soon  after  return. 

*  Also  saw  it  the  16th. 

*  Like  the  silver,  made  a  variety  of  the  red  by  Baird. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


78  JOURNAL  [Sept.  11 

Sept  11.  George  Melvin  came  to  tell  me  this  fore- 
noon that  a  strange  animal  was  killed  on  Sunday,  the 
9th,  near  the  north  line  of  the  town,  and  it  was  not  known 
certainly  what  it  was.  From  his  description  I  judged  it 
to  be  a  Canada  lynx.  In  the  afternoon  I  went  to  see  it. 
It  was  killed  on  Sunday  morning  by  John  Quincy 
Adams,  who  lives  in  Carlisle  about  half  a  mile  (or  less) 
from  the  Concord  line,  on  the  Carlisle  road. 

Some  weeks  ago  a  little  giri  named  Buttrick,  who  was 
huckleberrying  near  where  the  lynx  was  killed,  was 
frightened  by  a  wild  animal  leaping  out  of  the  bushes 
near  her  —  over  her,  as  she  said  —  and  bounding  oflF. 
But  no  one  then  regarded  her  story.  Also  a  Mr.  Grimes, 
who  lives  in  Concord  just  on  the  line,  tells  me  that  some 
month  ago  he  heard  from  his  house  the  loud  cry  of  an 
animal  in  the  woods  northward,  and  told  his  wife  that  if 
he  were  in  Canada  he  should  say  it  was  a  bob-tailed  cat. 
He  had  lived  seven  years  in  Canada  and  seen  a  number 
of  this  kind  of  animal.  Also  a  neighbor  of  his,  riding 
home  in  the  night,  had  heard  a  similar  cry.  Jacob 
Farmer  saw  a  strange  animal  at  Bateman's  Pond  a  year 
ago,  which  he  thinks  was  this. 

Adams  had  lost  some  of  his  hens,  and  had  referred 
it  to  a  fox  or  the  hke.  He  being  out,  his  son  told  me  that 
on  Sunday  he  went  out  with  his  gun  to  look  after  the 
depredator,  and  some  forty  or  fifty  rods  from  his  house 
northwesterly  ^  (on  Dr.  Jones's  lot,  which  I  surveyed) 
in  the  woods,  this  animal  suddenly  dropped  within  two 
feet  of  him,  so  near  that  he  could  not  fire.  He  had  heard 
a  loud  hiss,  but  did  not  mind  it.  He  accordingly  struck 
*  Vide  forward. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A   CANADA  LYNX  79 

it  with  the  butt  of  his  gun,  and  it  then  bounded  oflF 
fifteen  feet  ^  or  more,  turned  about,  and  faced  him, 
whereupon  he  fired  directly  into  its  eyes,  putting  them 
out.  His  gun  was  loaded  with  small  shot.  No.  9.  The 
creature  then  bounded  out  of  sight,  and  he  had  a  chance 
to  reload,  by  which  time  it  appeared  again,  crawling 
toward  him  on  its  belly,  fiercely  seeking  him.  He  fired 
again,  and,  it  still  facing  him,  he  fired  a  third  time  also, 
and  finally  finished  it  with  the  butt  of  his  gun. 

It  was  now  skinned  and  the  skin  stuflFed  with  hay,  and 
the  skull  had  been  boiled,  in  order  to  be  put  into  the 
head. 

I  measured  the  stuflFed  skin  carefully.  From  the  fore- 
head (the  nose  pointing  down)  to  end  of  tail,  3  feet  4^ 
[inches].  Tail  stout  and  black  at  the  abrupt  end, 
5  inches.  Extreme  length  from  fore  paws  to  hind  paws, 
4  feet  8  inches,  when  stretched  out,  the  skin  being  stiff. 
(They  said  it  measured  5  feet  before  it  was  skinned, 
which  is  quite  likely.)  Forehead  to  extremity  of  hind 
feet,  50i  inches.  It  st9od,  as  nearly  as  I  could  measure, 
holding  it  up,  19  to  20  inches  high  from  ground  to 
shoulder.  From  midway  between  the  legs  beneath,  the 
hind  legs  measured  19  inches,  within;  the  fore  legs,  16 
inches,  within.  From  skull  to  end  of  tuft  on  ear,  4^ 
inches;  tuft  on  ear  (black  and  thin),  1^  inches.  The 
width  of  fore  paw  gently  pressed  was  3 J  inches;  would 
have  made  a  track  perhaps  four  inches  wide  in  snow. 
There  was  a  small  hare  brown  tubercle  of  flesh  to  each  toe, 
and  also  a  larger  one  for  the  sole,  amid  the  grayish-white 

^  Another  says  he  told  him  thirty  feet  and  that  they  went  and 
measured  it.    Vide  forward. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


80  JOURNAL  [Sept.  11 

hair.  A  principal  claw  was  f  inch  long  measured  directly, 

but  it  was  very  curving. 

For  color:  It  was,  above, 
brownish-gray,  with  a  dark- 
brown  or  black  line  down  the 
middle  of  the  back.  Sides 
gray,  with  small  dark-brown 
spots,  more  or  less  within  the  hair.  Beneath,  lighter, 
hoarj/y  and  long-haired.  Legs  gray,  like  the  sides,  but 
more  reddish-brown  behind,  especially  the  hind  legs, 
and  these,  like  the  belly  and  sides,  were  indistinctly 
spotted  with  dark  brown,  having  the  eflFect  more  of  a 
dark-brown  tinge  at  a  little  distance  than  of  spots.  Gen- 
eral aspect  brownish-hoary.  Tail,  above,  more  reddish 
than  rest  of  back,  much,  and  conspicuously  black  at  end. 
Did  not  notice  any  white  at  tip.  Throat  pretty  white. 
Ears,  without,  broadly  edged  with  black  half  an  inch 
or  more  wide,  the  rest  being  a  triangular  white.  There 
was  but  a  small  muffler,  chiefly  a 
C*        Cy  triangular  whitish  and  blackish  tuft 

\m         '  ^  on  the  sides  of  the  face  or  neck,  not 

yP^^   J     fir     noticeably  under  the  chin. 

*  It  weighed,   by  their  account, 

nineteen  pounds.  This  was  a  female,  and  Farmer 
judged  from  his  examination  of  the  mammse  —  two 
or  more  of  them  being  enlarged,  and  the  hair  worn  off 
around  them  —  that  it  had  suckled  young  this  year. 
The  fur  was  good  for  nothing  now. 

I  cannot  doubt  that  this  is  a  Canada  Ijmx;  yet  I  am 
somewhat  puzzled  by  the  descriptions  of  the  two  lynxes. 
Enmions  says  of  the  Canada  lynx  that  it  has  "  no  naked 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A   CANADA   LYNX  81 

spots  or  tubercles  [on  the  soles  of  its  feet]  like  the  other 
species  of  the  feline  race;"  and  Audubon  says,  "Soles, 
hairy;"  but  of  the  Lynx  rufuSy  "Soles  .  .  .  naked." 
It  is  Audubon's  i.  rufus  in  the  naked  soles,  also  in 
"ears,  outer  surface,  a  triangular  spot  of  dull  white,  .  .  . 
bordered  with  brownish-black,"  not  described  in  his 
Canadensis,  It  is  his  i.  Canadensis  in  size,  in  color 
generally,  in  length  of  ear-tuft  (his  L,  rufus  tufts  being 
only  half  an  inch),  in  "  upper  surface  of  the  tail,  to  within 
an  inch  of  the  tip,  and  exterior  portion  of  the  thighs, 
rufous,"  in  tail  being  stout,  not  "slender"  like  rufus. 
Audubon  says  that  the  Z.  rufus  is  easily  distinguished 
from  small  specimens  of  the  female  L,  Canadensis  by 
"  the  larger  feet  and  more  tufted  ears  of  the  latter,  ...  as 
well  as  its  grayer  color."  This  is  four  inches  longer  than 
his  smaller  Canada  lynx  and  exactly  as  long  as  his 
larger  one,  —  both  his  being  males.  Emmons's  one  is 
also  just  37  inches,  or  the  same  length.  Emmons's 
largest  L.  rufus  is,  thus  measured,  only  29  inches  long 
and  Audubon's  "  fine  specimen  "  only  30  inches. 

Grimes,  who  had  lived  seven  years  in  Canada,  called 
this  a  "  bob-tailed  cat,"  and  said  that  the  Canada  Ijmx 
was  as  dark  as  his  dog,  which  would  be  called  a  black 
dc^,  though  somewhat  brownish. 

They  told  me  there  that  a  boy  had  seen  another,  sup- 
posed to  be  its  mate,'  this  morning,  and  that  they  were 
going  out  to  hunt  it  toward  night.  ^ 

The  water  is  cold  to-day,  and  bathing  begins  to  be 
questionable. 

*  Only  a  stone.  '  Vide  next  page. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


82  JOURNAL  [Sept.  11 

The  turtles,  painted  and  stemothsenis,  are  certainly 
less  timid  than  in  the  spring.  I  see  a  row  of  half  a  dozen 
or  more  painted  turtles  on  a  slanting  black  willow,  so 
close  together  that  two  or  three  of  them  actually  have 
their  fore  feet  on  the  shells  of  their  predecessors,  some- 
what like  a  row  of  bricks  that  is  falling.  The  scales  of 
some  are  curied  up  and  just  falling. 

Sept.  12.  Very  heavy  rain  to-day  (equinoctial),  raising 
the  river  suddenly.  I  have  said,  within  a  week,  that  the 
river  would  rise  this  fall  because  it  did  not  at  all  in  the 
spring,  and  now  it  rises.  A  very  dark  and  stormy  night 
(after  it) ;  shops  but  half  open.  Where  the  fence  is  not 
painted  white  I  can  see  nothing,  and  go  whistling  for 
fear  I  run  against  some  one,  though  there  is  little  danger 
that  any  one  will  be  out.  I  come  against  a  stone  post 
and  bruise  my  knees;  then  stumble  over  a  bridge, — 
being  in  the  gutter.  You  walk  with  your  hands  out  to 
feel  the  fences  and  trees.  There  is  no  vehicle  in  the 
street  to-night. 

The  thermometer  at  4  p.  m.  was  54°. 

There  was  pretty  high  wind  in  the  night. 

Sept.  13.  I  go  early  to  pick  up  my  windfalls.  Some  of 
them  are  half  buried  in  the  soil,  the  rain  having  spat- 
tered the  dirt  over  them. 

The  river  this  morning,  about  7  a.  M.,  is  already 
twenty-eight  and  a  half  inches  above  summer  level,  and 
more  than  twenty  inches  of  this  is  owing  to  the  rain  of 
yesterday  and  last  night!!  By  1.30  p.  m.,  when  it  has 
risen  two  or  three  inches  more,  I  can  just  cross  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE   CURRENT  OF  THE  RIVER       83 

meadow  in  a  straight  line  to  the  Rock.  I  see  a  snake 
swimming  on  the  middle  of  the  tide,  far  from  shore, 
washed  out  of  the  meadow,  and  myriads  of  grasshoppers 
and  beetles,  etc.,  are  wrecked  or  clinging  to  the  weeds 
and  stubble  that  rises  above  the  flood.  At  evening  the 
river  is  five  inches  higher  than  in  the  morning. 

There  is  very  little  current  at  my  boat's  place  this 
evening,  yet  a  chip  floats  down  (and  next  morning,  the 
14th,  I  see  that  a  large  limb  has  been  carried  up-stream 
during  the  night,  from  where  it  lay  at  evening,  some 
twenty  rods  above  the  junction,  to  a  place  thirty  rods 
above  the  junction).  Yet,  when  I  try  the  current  (in  the 
evening  of  the  13th)  with  a  chip,  it  goes  down  at  Heron 
Rock,  but  the  limb  was  large  and  irregular,  and  sank 
very  deep  in  the  water;  so  I  think  that  the  Assabet  water 
was  running  up  beneath  while  the  Musketaquid  flowed 
down  over  it  slowly. 

A  Carlisle  man  tells  me  of  a  coon  he  killed  in  Carlisle 
which  weighed  twenty-three  and  a  half  pounds  and 
dressed  fourteen  pounds.  He  frequently  sees  and  hears 
them  at  present. 

On  the  13th  I  go  to  J.  Q.  Adams's  again  to  see  the 
lynx.  Farmer  said  that  if  the  skin  was  tainted  the  hair 
would  come  off. 

The  tail  is  black  at  extremity  for  one  inch,  and  no 
white  at  tip;  the  rest  of  it  above  is  rust-color  (beneath 
it  is  white),  with  the  slightest  possible  suggestion  of 
white  rings,  i,  e.  a  few  white  hairs  noticed.  When 
stretched  or  spread  the  fore  foot  measured  just  5  inches 
in  width,  the  hind  foot  scarcely  less  than  6  inches.  The 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


84  JOURNAL  [Sept.  13 

black  border  on  the  ear  was  broadest  on  the  inner 
(t.  e.  toward  the  other  ear)  and  forward  side,  —  \  inch 
and  more.  The  tufts  on  the  ears  only  about  \-\-  inch 
wide. 

Adams  went  to  show  me  the  carcass.  It  was  quite 
sweet  still  (13thj  in  afternoon),  only  a  little  fly-blown.  No 
quadruped  or  bird  had  touched  it.  Remarkably  long 
and  slender,  made  for  jumping.  The  muscles  of  the 
thigh  were  proportionately  very  large.  I  thought  the 
thigh  would  measure  now  9  inches  in  circumference. 
I  had  heard  that  there  was  nothing  in  its  stomach,  but 
we  opened  the  paunch  and  found  it  full  of  rabbits'  fur. 
I  cut  off  a  fore  leg. 

He  said  that  he  had  lost  two  or  three  hens  only,  and 
apparently  did  not  think  much  of  that.  The  first  he 
knew  the  animal  was  within  three  feet  of  him,  so  that 
he  could  hardly  turn  his  gun  to  strike  him.  He  did  not 
know  where  he  came  from,  —  whether  from  over  the 
wall,  to  which  he  was  near,  or  from  a  chestnut,  for  he 
was  in  the  midst  of  the  woods  of  Jones's  lot,  not  cut. 
He  felt  somewhat  frightened.  Struck  him  with  the  butt 
of  his  gun,  but  did  not  hurt  him  much,  he  was  so  quick. 
He  jumped  at  once  thirty  feet,  turned  round,  and  faced 
him.  He  then  fired,  about  thirty  feet,  at  his  eyes,  and 
destroyed  one,  —  perhaps  put  out  the  other,  too.  He 
then  bounded  out  of  sight.  When  he  had  loaded  he  found 
him  crawling  toward  him  on  his  belly  as  if  to  spring 
upon  him;  fired  again,  and  thinks  he  mortally  wounded 
him  then.  After  loading,  approached,  and  the  lynx  faced 
him,  all  alive.  He  tlien  fired,  and  the  lynx  leapt  up  fif- 
teen feet,  fell,  and  died.  Either  at  the  second  or  last  shot 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   CANADA  LYNX  85 

leapt  within  ten  feet  of  him.  He  was  much  impressed 
by  his  eyes  and  the  niflf  standing  out  on  the  sides  of  his 
neck. 

This  was  about  one  hundred  and  thirty  rods  easterly 
from  his  house. 

The  skinned  tail  measured  5  inches.  I  boiled  the  leg 
on  the  14th  (five  days  after  it  was  killed)  for  the  bone.  It 
smelled  and  looked  like  very  good  meat,  like  mutton. 

Vide  Salem  lynxes,  September  23d,  1858.* 

It  is  remarkable  how  slow  people  are  to  believe  that 
there  are  any  wild  animals  in  their  neighborhood.  They 
who  have  seen  this  generally  suppose  that  it  got  out  of 
a  menagerie;  others  that  it  strayed  down  from  far  north. 
At  most  they  call  it  Canada  lynx.  In  Willey's  White 
Mountain  book  the  same  animal  is  spoken  of  as  a  terror 
to  the  hunter  and  called  the  "Siberian  Lynx."  What 
they  call  it  I  know  not. 

I  do  not  think  it  necessary  even  to  suppose  it  a  strag- 
gler, but  only  very  rare  hereabouts.  I  have  seen  two 
lynxes  that  were  killed  between  here  and  Salem  since 
'27.  Have  heard  of  another  killed  in  or  near  Andover. 
There  may  have  been  many  more  killed  as  near  within 
thirty  years  and  I  not  have  heard  of  it,  for  they  who  kill 
one  commonly  do  not  know  what  it  is.  They  are  noc- 
turnal in  their  habits,  and  therefore  are  the  more  rarely 
seen,  yet  a  strange  animal  is  seen  in  this  town  by  some- 
body about  every  year,  or  its  track.  I  have  heard  of  two 
or  three  such  within  a  year,  and  of  half  a  dozen  within 
fifteen  years.  Such  an  animal  might  range  fifteen  to 
twenty  miles  back  and  forth  from  Acton  to  Tewksbury 
1  Vide  extract  from  Richardson,  Nov.  10,  1860. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


86  JOURNAL  [Sept.  13 

and  find  more  woodland  than  in  the  southern  part  of 
New  Hampshire  generally. 

Farmer  says  that  a  farmer  in  Tewksbury  told  him 
two  or  three  years  ago  that  he  had  seen  deer  lately  on 
the  pine  plain  thereabouts. 

Adams  got  a  neighbor  to  help  him  skin  the  lynx,  a 
middle-aged  man;  but  he  was  "so  nervous"  and  un- 
willing to  touch  even  the  dead  beast,  when  he  came  to 
see  it,  that  he  gave  him  but  little  assistance. 

Dr.  Reynolds  tells  me  of  a  lynx  killed  in  Andover,  in  a 
swamp  near  Haggerty's  Pond,  one  winter  when  he  kept 
school  in  Tewksbury,  about  1820.  At  first  it  was  seen 
crossing  the  Merrimack  into  Tewksbury,  and  there  was 
accordingly  a  story  of  an  animal  about  that  was  ten  feet 
long.  They  turned  out,  all  the  hunters  of  the  neighbor- 
hood, and  tracked  it  in  the  snow,  across  Tewksbury  to 
the  swamp  in  Andover  and  back  again  to  Tewksbury. 
One  old  hunter  bet  something  that  they  could  not  show 
him  a  track  which  he  did  not  know,  but  when  they 
showed  him  this  he  gave  up.  Finally  they  tracked  it  to 
the  Andover  swamp,  and  a  boy  shot  it  on  a  tree,  though 
it  leapt  and  fell  within  a  few  feet  of  him  when  shot. 

Rice  tells  of  a  common  wildcat  killed  in  Sudbury 
some  forty  years  ago,  resting  on  some  ice  as  it  was 
crossing  the  Sudbury  meadows  amid  ice  and  water. 

Mr.  Boutwell  of  Groton  tells  me  that  a  lynx  was 
killed  in  Dunstable  within  two  or  three  years.  Thinks 
it  is  in  the  State  Museum.* 

This  makes  five  that  I  have  heard  of  (and  seen  three) 

*  Vide  "New  England's  Prospect"  near  beginning  of  Indian  Book 
No.  9. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  MR.  DAVIS'S  MUSEUM  87 

killed  within  some  fifteen  or  eighteen  miles  of  Concord 
within  thirty  years  past,  and  no  doubt  there  have  been 
three  times  as  many  of  them  killed  here.^ 

Sept  14.  A.  M. — River  still  rising;  at  4  p.  m.  one 
and  an  eighth  inches  higher  than  in  morning. 

Sept  15.  In  morning  river  is  three  feet  two  and  a  half 
plus  inches  above  summer  level.  6  p.  m.,  river  is  slightly 
higher  than  in  morning,  or  at  height.  Thus  it  reached 
its  height  the  third  day  after  the  rain  ;  had  risen  on  the 
morning  of  the  third  day  about  thirty  inches  on  account 
of  the  rain  of  one  day  (the  12th). 

Joe  Smith's  man  brings  me  this  forenoon  a  fish  hawk 
which  was  shot  on  George  Brooks's  pigeon-stand  last 
evening.  It  is  evidently  a  female  of  this  year,  full  grown. 
Length  23  inches;  alar  extent  5  feet  6i  inches.  It  prob- 
ably lit  there  merely  for  a  perch. 

Looked  at  Mr.  Davis's  museum.  Miss  Lydla  Hosmer 
(the  surviving  maiden  lady)  has  given  him  some  relics 
which  belonged  to  her  (the  Hosmer)  family.  A  small 
lead  or  pewter  sun-dial,  which  she  told  him  was  brought 
over  by  her  ancestors  and  which  has  the  date  1626 
scratched  on  it.   Also  some  stone  weights  in  an  ancient 

*  Vide  Sept.  29,  1856.  Walcx)tt  [?]  saw  a  lynx  of  some  kind  which 
was  killed  in  (his  father's  ? )  bam  in  Bolton  [  ?  ]  some  twenty-five  years 
ago;  not  so  big  as  mine.  Bradford  says  the  Essex  Institute  have  an- 
other killed  in  that  neighborhood  more  recently. 

Oct.  15.  —  Channing  reads  in  papers  that  within  a  few  days  a  wild- 
cat was  killed  in  Northampton  weighing  twenty-two  pounds  and 
another  in  Tyringham,  Berkshire  G)unty,  of  thirty-six  pounds  (of 
course  L.  Canadensis  both). 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


88  JOURNAL  [Sept.  15 

linen  bag,  said  to  have  been  brought  from  England. 
They  were  oval  stones  or  pebbles  from  the  shore,  —  or 
might  have  been  picked  up  at  Walden.  There  was  a 
pound,  a  half-pound,  a  quarter,  a  two-ounce,  and  several 
one-ounce  weights,  now  all  rather  dark  and  ancient  to 
look  at,  like  the  bag.  This  was  to  me  the  most  interesting 
relic  in  his  collection.  I  love  to  see  anything  that  implies 
a  simpler  mode  of  life  and  greater  nearness  to  the 
earth. 

Sept,  16.  7  A.  M.  —  River  fallen  one  and  a  half  inches. 
Is  three  feet  and  seven  eighths  of  an  inch  above  summer 
level,  i.  e,  at  notch  on  tree.  I  mark  a  willow  eight  feet 
above  summer  level. 

See  no  zizania  seed  ripe,  or  black,  yet,  but  almost  all 
is  fallen. 

Sept.  17.  6.30  A.  M.  —  River  thirty-four  and  an 
eighth  abf)ve  summer  level,  or  fallen  about  four  inches 
since  evening  of  15th.  It  flows  now  (a  sunk  bottle)  one 
hundred  feet  in  two  minutes*  at  boat's  place,  there  being 
no  wind.  * 

P.  M.  —  Up  river. 

Pontederia  seeds  falling. 

See  a  flock  of  eight  or  ten  wood  ducks  on  the  Grind- 
stone Meadow,  with  glass,  some  twenty-five  rods  oflf,  — 
several  drakes  very  handsome.  They  utter  a  creaking 
scream  as  they  sail  there,  —  being  alarmed,  —  from 
time  to  time,  shrill  and  loud,  very  unlike  the  black  duck. 
At  last  one  sails  off,  calling  the  others  by  a  short  creaking 
note. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]       THE  FIRST  AUTUMNAL  DAY   .       89 

Sept  18.  According  to  all  accounts,  very  little  com  is 
fit  to  grind  before  October  1st  (though  I  have  one  kind 
ripe  and  fit  to  grind  September  1st).  It  becomes  hard 
and  dry  enough  in  the  husk  in  the  field  by  that  time» 
much  of  it.  But  long  before  this,  or  say  by  the  1st  of 
September,  it  begins  to  glaze  (or  harden  on  the  surface), 
when  it  begins  to  be  too  hard  to  boil. 

P.  M.— To  beeches. 

This  is  a  beautiful  day,  warm  but  not  too  wann,  a 
harvest  day  (I  am  going  down  the  railroad  causeway), 
the  first  unquestionable  and  conspicuous  autumnal  day, 
when  the  willows  and  button-bushes  are  a  yellowed 
bower  in  parallel  lines  along  the  swollen  and  shining 
stream.  The  first  autumnal  tints  (of  red  maples)  are  now 
generally  noticed.  The  shrilling  of  the  alder  locust  fills 
the  air.  A  brightness  as  of  spring  is  reflected  from  the 
green  shorn  fields.  Both  sky  and  earth  are  bright.  The 
first  clear  blue  and  shining  white  (of  clouds).  Corn- 
stalk-tops are  stacked  about  the  fields;  potatoes  are 
being  dug;  smokes  are  seen  in  the  horizon.  It  is  the 
season  of  agricultural  fairs.  If  you  are  not  happy  to-day 
you  will  hardly  be  so  to-morrow. 

Leaving  Lowell  on  the  morning  of  the  10th,  after  the 
rain  of  the  day  before,  I  passed  some  heaps  of  brush  in 
an  opening  in  the  woods,  —  a  pasture  surrounded  by 
woods,  —  to  which  the  owner  was  just  setting  fire,  wet 
as  they  were,  it  being  the  safest  time  to  bum  them. 
Hence  they  make  so  much  smoke  sometimes.  Some 
farmer,  perhaps,  wishes  to  plow  this  fall  there,  and  sow 
rye  perchance,  or  merely  to  keep  his  pasture  clear. 
Hence  the  smokes  in  the  horizon  at  this  season.    The 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


90  JOURNAL  [Sept.  18 

rattle-pod  (in  Deep  Cut)  has  begun  to  turn  black  and 
rattle  for  three  or  four  days. 

Notice  some  green  pods  of  lady*s-slipper  still,  full  of 
chaflFy  seed. 

The  beechnut  burs  are  browned  but  not  falling.  They 
open  directly  in  my  chamber.  The  nuts  are  all  empty. 

White  pine  cones  (a  small  crop),  and  all  open  that  I 
see.* 

The  toadstools  in  wood-paths  are  perforated  (almost 
like  pepper-boxes)  by  flattish  slippery  insects,  bronze 
and  black,  which  are  beneath  and  within  it.  Or  you 
see  their  heads  projecting  and  the  dust  (or  exuvise)  they 
make  like  a  curb  about  the  holes. 

Smooth  sumach  berries  are  about  past  their  beauty 
and  the  white  creamy  incrustation  mostly  dried  up. 

I  see  in  the  Walden  road  two  dead  shrews  and  some 
fox-dung  by  them.  They  look  as  if  bitten  and  flatted  by 
the  fox.  Were  they  not  dropped  there  by  him  ?  Perhaps 
they  will  not  eat  one.^ 

Sept.  19.    4  p.  M.  —  River  fallen  about  one  foot. 


\ 


Sept.  20.    Cattle-Show. 
Rainy  in  forenoon. 

Sept.  21.  Hard  rain  last  night.  About  one  and  seven 
eighths  inches  fallen  since  yesterday  morning,  and  river 
rising  again. 

See,    at    Reynolds's,    Hungarian    millet    raised    by 

*  Are  they  not  last  year's? 
»  Vide  24th. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    WINGED  AND  WINGLESS  SEEDS      91 

Everett.    It  is  smaller  and  more  purple  than  what  is 
commonly  raised  here. 

P.  M.  —  To  Easterbrooks  Country. 
•   The  fever-bush  berries  have  begun  some  time,  —  say 
one  week;  are  not  yet  in  prime.   Taste  almost  exactly 
like  lemon-peel.    But  few  bushes  bear  any. 

The  bayberries  are  perhaps  ripe,  but  not  so  light  a 
gray  and  so  rough,  or  wrinkled,  as  they  will  be. 

The  pods  of  the  broom  are  nearly  half  of  them  open. 
I  perceive  that  one,  just  ready  to  open,  opens  with  a 
slight  spring  on  being  touched,  and  the  pods  at  once 
twist  and  curl  a  little.  I  suspect  that  such  seeds  as  these, 
which  the  winds  do  not  transport,  will  turn  out  to  be 
more  sought  after  by  birds,  etc.,  and  so  transported  by 
them  than  those  lighter  ones  which  are  furnished  with 
a  pappus  and  are  accordingly  transported  by  the  wind; 
i.  e,y  that  those  which  the  wind  takes  are  less  generally 
the  food  of  birds  and  quadrupeds  than  the  heavier  and 
wingless  seeds. 

MvMenbergia  Mexicana  by  wall  between  E.  Hosmer 
and  Simon  Brown,  some  time.  Some  large  thorn  bushes 
quite  bare. 

Sept  22.    P.  M.  —  To  Clamshell  by  boat. 

Find  more  pieces  of  that  Indian  pot.  Have  now 
thirty-eight  in  all. 

Evidently  the  recent  rise  of  the  river  has  caused  the 
lower  leaves  of  the  button-bush  to  fall.  A  perfectly 
level  line  on  these  bushes  marks  the  height  to  which 
the  water  rose,  many  or  most  of  the  leaves  so  high 
having  fallen. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


92  JOURNAL  [Sept.  22 

The  clematis  yesterday  was  but  just  beginning  to  be 
feathered,  but  its  feathers  make  no  show.  Feathers 
out  next  day  in  house. 

See  a  large  flock  of  crows. 

The  sweet-gale  fruit  is  yet  quite  green,  but  perhaps 
it  is  ripe.  The  button-bush  balls  are  hardly  reddened. 

Moreover  the  beach  plum  appears  to  prefer  a  sandy 
place,  however  far  inland,  and  one  of  our  patches  grows 
on  the  only  desert  which  we  have. 

Some  of  the  eariy  botanists,  like  Gerard,  were 
prompted  and  compelled  to  describe  their  plants,  but 
most  nowadays  only  measure  them,  as  it  were.  The 
former  is  aflfected  by  what  he  sees  and  so  inspired  to 
portray  it;  the  latter  merely  fills  out  a  schedule  pre- 
pared for  him,  —  makes  a  description  pour  servir.  I  am 
constantly  assisted  by  the  books  in  identifying  a  particu- 
lar plant  and  learning  some  of  its  humbler  uses,  but  I 
rarely  read  a  sentence  in  a  botany  which  reminds  me 
of  flowers  or  living  plants.  Very  few  indeed  write  as 
if  .they  had  seen  the  thing  which  they  pretend  to  de- 
scribe. 

Sept  23.  P.  M.  —  To  Cliffs. 

Some  small  botrychium  ripe. 

I  see  on  the  top  of  the  Cliffs  to-day  the  dung  of  a  fox, 
consisting  of  fur,  with  part  of  the  jaw  and  one  of  the  long 
rodent  teeth  of  a  woodchuck  in  it,  and  the  rest  of  it 
huckleberry  seeds  with  some  whole  berries.  I  saw 
exactly  the  same  beyond  Goose  Pond  a  few  days  ago, 
on  a  rock,  —  except  that  the  tooth  (a  curved  rodent) 
was  much  smaller,  probably  of  a  mouse.    It  is  evident, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  NATURE'S  FORESTRY  93 

then,  that  the  fox  eats  huckleberries  and  so  contributes 
very  much  to  the  dispersion  of  this  shrub,  for  there  were 
a  number  of  entire  berries  in  its  dung,  —  in  both  the 
Jast  two  I  chanced  to  notice.  To  spread  these  seeds. 
Nature  employs  not  only  a  great  many  birds  but  this 
restless  ranger  the  fox.  Like  ourselves,  he  likes  two 
courses,  rabbit  and  huckleberries. 

I  see  everywhere  in  the  shady  yew  wood  those  pretty 
round-eyed  fungus-spots  on  the  upper  leaves  of  the 
blue-stemmed  goldenrod  (vide  press),  contrasting 
with  the  few  bright-yellow  flowers  above  them,  —  yel- 
lowish-white rings  (with  a  slate-colored  centre),  sur- 
rounded by  green  and  then  dark. 

Red  pine-sap  by  north  side  of  Yew  Path  some  ten 
rods  east  of  yew,  not  long  done.  The  root  of  the  freshest 
has  a  decided  checkerberry  scent,  and  for  a  long  time  — 
a  week  after  —  in  my  chamber,  the  bruised  plant  has  a 
very  pleasant  earthy  sweetness. 

I  hear  that  a  large  owl,  probably  a  cat  owl,  killed  and 
carried  oflf  a  full-grown  turkey  in  Carlisle  a  few  days 
ago. 

Sept.  24.  P.  M.  — To  Flint's  Pond  via  Smith's 
chestnut  grove. 

See  a  dead  shrew  in  road  on  Turnpike  Hill.  (Had 
hard  rain  the  night  of  the  20th.)  Vide  back,  18th. 

It  is  remarkable  how  persistently  Nature  endeavors 
to  keep  the  earth  clothed  with  wood  of  some  kind,  — 
how  much  vitality  there  is  in  the  stumps  and  roots  of 
some  trees,  though  small  and  young.  For  example,  ex- 
amined the  little  hickories  on  the  bare  slope  of  Smith's 


Digitized  by  Google 


94  JOURNAL  [Sept.  24 

Hill.  I  have  observed  them  endeavoring  to  cover  that 
slope  for  a  dozen  years  past,  and -have  wondered  how 
the  seed  came  there,  planted  on  a  bare  pasture  hillside, 
but  I  now  see  that  the  nuts  were  probably  planted  just 
before  the  pine  wood  (the  stumps  of  which  remain)  was 
cut  down,  and,  having  sprung  up  about  that  time,  have 
since  been  repeatedly  cut  down  to  keep  the  pasture  clear, 
till  now  they  are  quite  feeble  or  dying,  though  many  are 
six  feet  high.  When  a  part  of  the  hill  has  been  plowed 
and  cultivated  I  examine  the  roots  which  have  been 
turned  out,  and  find  that  they  are  two  inches  thick  at 
the  ground  though  only  one  to  three  feet  high  above.  I 
judge  that  it  is  fifteen  years  since  the  pine  wood  was  cut, 
and  if  the  hickories  had  not  been  cut  down  and  cattle 
been  kept  out,  there  would  have  been  a  dense  hickory 
wood  there  now  fifteen  to  twenty  feet  high  at  least.  You 
see  on  an  otherwise  perfectly  bare  hillside  or  pasture 
where  pines  were  cut,  say  fifteen  years  before,  remote 
from  any  hickories,  countless  little  hickories  a  foot  high 
or. little  more  springing  up  every  few  feet,  and  you 
wonder  how  they  came  there,  but  the  fact  that  they  pre- 
serve their  vitality,  though  cut  down  so  often  and  so 
long,  accounts  for  them. 

This  shows  how  heedlessly  wood-lots  are  managed  at 
present,  and  suggests  that  when  one  is  cut  (if  not  before) 
a  provident  husbandman  will  carefully  examine  the 
ground  and  ascertain  what  kind  of  wood  is  about  to 
take  the  place  of  the  old  and  how  abundantly,  in  order 
that  he  may  act  understandingly  and  determine  if  it  is 
best  to  clear  the  land  or  not.  I  have  seen  many  a  field 
perfectly  barren  for  fifteen  or  twenty  years,  which,  if 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE   GEIROPODIUM  FUNGUS  95 

properly  managed,  or  only  let  alone,  would  natu- 
rally have  yielded  a  crop  of  birch  trees  within  that 
time. 

In  Wood  Thrush  Path  at  Flint's  Pond,  a  great  many 
of  the  geiropodium  fungus  now  shed  their  dust.  When 
closed  it  is  [a]  roundish  or  conical  orange-colored  fungus 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  covered  with  a 
mucilaginous  matter.  The  thick  outer  skin  of  many  (it 
is  pink-red  inside)  had  already  curled  back  (it  splits  into 
segments  and  curls  parallel  to  the  axis  of  the  plant)  and 
revealed  the  pinkish  fawn-colored  puffball  capped  with 
a  red  dimple  or  crown.  This  is  a  hollow  bag,  which, 
when  you  touch  it,  spurts  forth  a  yellowish-white 
powder  three  or  four  inches  through  its  orifice. 

See  two  very  handsome  butterflies  on  the  Flint's  Pond 
road  in  the  woods  at  Gourgas  lot,  which  C.  had  not  seen 
before.  I  find  that  they  are  quite  like  the  Vanessa  Ata- 
lanta,  or  red  admiral,  of  England. 

9  p.  M.  —  The  river  risen  about  thirty-three  inches 
above  summer  level. 

Sept,  25.  Hard,  gusty  rain  (with  thunder  and  light- 
ning) in  afternoon.  About  seven  eighths  of  an  inch 
falls. 

Sept  26.  P.  M.— Round  Walden  and  Pleasant 
Meadow. 

Small  oaks  in  hollows  (as  under  Emerson  CliflF)  have 
fairly  begun  to  change. 

The  taller  grass  and  sedge  is  now  generally  withered 
and  brown,  and  reveals  the  little  pines  in  it. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


96  JOURNAL  [Sept.  26 

I  see  that  ficoms — white  oak,  etc. — have  fallen  after 
the  rain  and  wind,  just  as  leaves  and  fruit  have. 

I  see,  just  up,  the  large  light-orange  ^|  toad-  , 
stools  with  white  spots,  —  at  first :    (T  then : 

Sept.  27.   A.  M.  —  Sawing  up  my  raft  by  river. 

River  about  thirty-five  inches  above  summer  level, 
and  goes  no  higher  this  time. 

Monroe's  tame  ducks  sail  along  and  feed  close  to  me 
as  I  am  working  there.  Looking  up,  I  see  a  Uttle  dipper, 
about  one  half  their  size,  in  the  middle  of  the  river,  evi- 
dently attracted  by  these  tame  ducks,  as  to  a  place  of 
security.  I  sit  down  and  watch  it.  The  tame  ducks  have 
paddled  four  or  five  rods  down-stream  along  the  shore. 
They  soon  detect  the  dipper  three  or  four  rods  oflF,  and 
betray  alarm  by  a  tittering  note,  especially  when  it  dives, 
as  it  does  continually.  At  last,  when  it  is  two  or  three 
rods  oflf  and  approaching  them  by  diving,  they  all  rush 
to  the  shore  and  come  out  on  it  in  their  fear,  but  the  dip- 
per shows  itself  close  to  the  shore,  and  when  they  enter 
the  water  again  joins  them  within  two  feet,  still  diving 
from  time  to  time  and  threatening  to  come  up  in  their 
midst.  They  return  up-stream,  more  or  less  alarmed,  and 
pursued  in  this  wise  by  the  dipper,  who  does  not  know 
what  to  make  of  their  fears,  and  soon  the  dipper  is  thus 
tolled  along  to  within  twenty  feet  of  where  I  sit,  and  I 
can  watch  it  at  my  leisure.  It  has  a  dark  bill  and  con- 
siderable white  on  the  sides  of  the  head  or  neck,  with 
black  between  it,  no  tufts,  and  no  observable  white  on 
back  or  tail.  When  at  last  disturbed  by  me,  it  suddenly 
sinks  low  (all  its  body)  in  the  water  without  diving. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BLACK  FROSTS  97 

Thus  it  can  float  at  various  heights.  (So  on  the  30th 
I  saw  one  suddenly  dash  along  the  surface  from  the 
meadow  ten  rods  before  me  to  the  middle  of  the  river, 
and  then  dive,  and  though  I  watched  fifteen  minutes 
and  examined  the  tufts  of  grass,  I  could  see  no  more 
of  it). 

Sept  28.  Butternuts  still  on  tree  and  falling,  as  all 
September. 

This  morning  we  had  a  very  severe  frost,  the  first  to 
kill  our  vines,  etc.,  in  garden ;  what  you  may  call  a.black 
frost,  —  making  things  look  black.  AlSo  ice  under 
pump. 

Sept  29.   Another  hard  frost  and  a  very  cold  day. 

Sept  30.    Frost  and  ice. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Ill 

OCTOBER,  1860 

(MT.   43) 

Oct,  1.  Remarkable  frost  and  ice  this  morning; 
quite  a  wintry  prospect.  The  leaves  of  trees  stiflp  and 
white  at  7  a.  m.  I  hear  it  was  21°  this  morning  early.  I 
do  not  remember  such  cold  at  this  season.  This  is  about 
the  full  of  the  moon  (it  fulled  at  9  p.  m.  the  29th)  in 
clear,  bright  moonlight  nights.  We  have  fine  and  bright 
but  cold  days  after  it.  One  man  tells  me  that  he  regretted 
that  he  had  not  taken  his  mittens  with  him  when  he 
went  to  his  morning's  work,  —  mowing  in  a  meadow,  — 
and  when  he  went  to  a  spring  at  11  a.  m.,  found  the  dip- 
per with  two  inches  of  ice  in  it  frozen  solid. 

P.  M.  —  Rain  again. 

Button-bush  balls  were  fairly  reddened  yesterday, 
and  the  Andropogon  scoparius  looked  silvery  in  sun. 
Gossamer  was  pretty  thick  on  the  meadows,  and  no- 
ticed the  round  green  leafy  buds  of  the  utricularia  in  the 
clear,  cold,  smooth  water.  Water  was  prepared  for  ice, 
and  C.  saw  the  first  Vanessa  Antiopa  since  spring. 

Oct,  3.    See  Vanessa  Antiopa. 

The  hard  frost  of  September  28th,  29th,  and  30th,  and 
especially  of  October  1st,  has  suddenly  killed,  crisped, 
and  caused  to  fall  a  great  many  leaves  of  ash,  hickory, 
etc.,  etc.   These  (and  the  locusts,  generally)  look  shriv- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE  WORK  OF  THE  FROSTS  99 

elled  and  hoary,  and  of  course  they  will  not  ripen  or  be 
bright.  They  are  killed  and  withered  green,  —  all  the 
more  tender  leaves.  Has  killed  all  the  burdock  flowers 
and  no  doubt  many  others. 

Sam  Barrett  says  that  last  May  he  waded  across  the 
Assabet  River  on  the  old  dam  in  front  of  his  house  with- 
out going  over  his  india-rubber  boots,  which  are  sixteen 
and  a  half  inches  high.  I  do  not  believe  you  could  have 
done  better  than  this  a  hundred  years  ago,  or  before  the 
canal  dam  was  built. 

Bay-wings  about. 

I  have  seen  and  heard  sparrows  in  flocks^  more  as  if 
flitting  by,  within  a  week,  or  since  the  frosts  began. 

Gathered  to-day  my  apples  at  the  Texas  house.  I 
set  out  the  trees,  fourteen  of  them  fourteen  years  ago  and 
five  of  them  several  years  later,  and  I  now  get  between 
ten  and  eleven  barrels  of  apples  from  them. 

Oct,  5.  Rain,  more  or  less,  yesterday  afternoon  and 
this  forenoon. 

P.  M.— ToWalden. 

The  frosts  have  this  year  killed  all  of  Stow's  artichokes 
before  one  of  them  had  blossomed,  but  those  in  Alcott's 
garden  had  bloomed  probably  a  fortnight  ago.  This 
suggests  that  this  plant  could  not  have  grown  much 
further  north  than  this.  I  see  a  great  many  young  hick- 
ories fifteen  feet  high  killed,  turned  brown,  almost  black, 
and  withering  in  the  woods,  as  I  do  not  remember  to 
have  seen  them  before.  Indeed,  the  woods  have  a  strong 
decaying  scent  in  consequence.  Also  much  indigo-weed 
is  killed  and  turned  black  and  broken  off,  as  well  as 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


100  JOURNAL  [Oct.  5 

fems  generally.  The  butternut  is  also  killed,  turned 
dark-brown,  and  the  leaves  mostly  fallen,  —  not  turning 
yellow  at  all.  The  maples  generally  are  what  Gerard 
would  have  called  an  "  over-worn  "  scarlet  color. 

About  4  p.  M.  it  is  fast  clearing  up,  the  clouds  with- 
drawing, with  a  little  dusky  scud  beyond  their  western 
edges  against  the  blue.  We  came  out  on  the  east  shore  of 
Walden.  The  water  is  tolerably  smooth.  The  smooth 
parts  are  dark  and  dimpled  by  many  rising  fishes. 
Where  it  is  rippled  it  is  light-colored,  and  the  surface 
thus  presents  three  or  four  alternate  light  and  dark  bars. 
I  see  a  fish  hawk,  skimming  low  over  it,  suddenly  dive 
or  stoop  for  one  of  those  little  fishes  that  rise  to  the  sur- 
face so  abundantly  at  this  season.  He  then  sits  on  a  bare 
limb  over  the  water,  ready  to  swoop  down  again  on  his 
finny  prey,  presenting,  as  he  sits  erect,  a  long  white 
breast  and  belly  and  a  white  head.  No  doubt  he  well 
knows  the  habits  of  these  little  fishes  which  dimple  the 
surface  of  Walden  at  this  season,  and  I  doubt  if  there  is 
any  better  fishing-ground  for  him  to  resort  to.  He  can 
easily  find  a  perch  overlooking  the  lake  and  discern  his 
prey  in  the  clear  water. 

The  sporobolus  grass  in  the  meadows  is  now  full  of 
rain  (as  erst  of  dew)  and  would  wet  you  through  if  you 
walked  there. 

Apparently  all  the  celtis  and  horse-chestnut  leaves 
are  killed,  turned  dark-brown  and  withering,  before 
changing  or  ripening,  so  severe  has  been  the  frost,  and, 
looking  from  hills  over  huckleberry-fields,  the  sweet- 
fern  patches  are  turned  a  dark  brown,  almost  black 
(mulberry   black)   amid   the   crimson   blueberry   and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  CROWS  EATING  ACORNS  101 

huckleberry,  so  that  the  surface  is  parded  black  and 
scarlet  from  the  same  cause.  * 


Oct.  6.    P.  M.  —  Over  hill  to  Woodis  Park. 

I  see  not  one  hemlock  cone  of  this  year  at  the  Hem- 
locks, but  very  many  of  last  year  holding  on.  Appar- 
ently they  bore  so  abundantly  last  year  that  they  do  not 
bear  at  all  this  year. 

I  hear  that  the  late  cold  of  September  29  and  30  and 
October  1  froze  all  Bull's  grapes  (papers  say  some  fifty 
bushels),  the  thermometer  going  down  to  20°. 

As  I  go  over  the  hill,  I  see  a  large  flock  of  crows  on  the 
dead  white  oak  and  on  the  ground  under  the  living  one. 
I  find  the  ground  strewn  with  white  oak  acorns^  and 
many  of  these  have  just  been  broken  in  two,  and  their 
broken  shells  are  strewn  about,  so  that  I  suppose  the 
crows  have  been  eatingthem.  Some  are  merely  scratched, 
as  if  they  had  been  pecked  at  without  being  pierced; 
also  there  are  two  of  the  large  swamp  white  oak  acom- 
cups  joined  together  dropped  under  this  oak,  perhaps 
by  a  crow,  maybe  a  quarter  of  a  mile  from  its  tree,  and 
that  probably  across  the  river.  Probably  a  crow  had 
transported  one  or  more  swamp  white  oak  acorns  this 
distance.  They  must  have  been  too  heavy  for  a  jay. 

The  crow,  methinks,  is  our  only  large  bird  that 
hovers  and  circles  about  in  flocks  in  an  irregular  and 
straggling  manner,  filling  the  air  over  your  head  and 
sporting  in  it  as  if  at  home  here.  They  often  burst  up 
above  the  woods  where  they  were  perching,  like  the 
black  fragments  of  a  powder-mill  just  exploded. 

One  crow  lingers  on  a  limb  of  the  dead  oak  till  I  am 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


102  JOURNAL  [Oct.  6 

within  a  dozen  rods.  There  is  strong  and  blustering 
northwest  wind,  and  when  it  launches  off  to  follow  its 
comrades  it  is  blown  up  and  backward  still  nearer  to  me, 
and  it  is  obliged  to  tack  four  or  five  times  just  like  a  ves- 
sel, a  dozen  rods  or  more  each  way,  very  deliberately, 
first  to  the  right,  then  to  the  left,  before  it  can  get  off; 
for  as  often  as  it  tries  to  fly  directly  forward  against  the 
wind,  it  is  blown  upward  and  backward  within  gunshot, 
and  it  only  advances  directly  forward  at  last  by  stooping 
very  low  within  a  few  feet  of  the  ground  where  the  trees 
keep  off  the  wind.  Yet  the  wind  is  not  remarkably 
strong. 

Horace  Mann  tells  me  that  he  saw  a  painted  turtle  in 
this  town  eating  a  unio,  in  our  river,  in  the  shell,  it  evi- 
dently having  just  caught  and  opened  it.  He  has  been 
collecting  shells  in  Ohio  recently,  and  was  obliged  to 
wade  at  least  knee-deep  into  the  streams  for  mussels,  the 
hogs,  which  run  at  large  there,  having  got  them  all  in  the 
shallower  water. 

Oct.  7.  P.  M.  —  To  Hubbard's  Bath  and  Grove. 

Now  and  for  a  week  the  chip-birds  in  flocks;  the 
withered  grass  and  weeds,  etc.,  alive  with  them. 

Rice  says  that  when  a  boy,  playing  with  darts  with  his 
brother  Israel,  one  of  them  sent  up  his  dart  when  a  flock 
of  crows  was  going  over.  One  of  the  crows  followed  it 
down  to  the  earth,  picked  it  up,  and  flew  off  with  it  a 
quarter  of  a  mile  before  it  dropped  it.  He  has  observed 
that  young  wood  ducks  swim  faster  than  the  old,  which 
is  a  fortunate  provision,  for  they  can  thus  retreat  and 
hide  in  the  weeds  while  their  parents  fly  off.    He  says 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    HAYDEN  AND  HIS  CORN-FIELD      lOS 

that  you  must  shoot  the  little  dipper  as  soon  as  it  comes 
up,  —  before  the  water  is  fairly  oflP  its  eyes,  —  jelse  it  will 
dive  at  the  flash. 

I  see  one  small  but  spreading  white  oak  full  of  acorns 
just  falling  and  ready  to  fall.  When  I  strike  a  limb,  great 
numbers  fall  to  the  ground.  They  are  a  very  dark  hazeU 
looking  black  amid  the  still  green  leaves,  —  a  singular 
contrast.  Some  that  have  fallen  have  already  split  and 
sprouted,  an  eighth  of  an  inch.  This  when,  on  some 
trees,  far  the  greater  part  have  not  yet  fallen. 

Probably  the  blueberry  and  huckleberry,  ame- 
lanchier,  and  other  bushes  which  spring  up  immediately 
when  the  woods  are  cut  have  been  already  planted  and 
started  annually,  as  the  little  oaks  have.  Nature  thus 
keeps  a  supply  of  these  plants  in  her  nursery  (i.  e.  under 
the  larger  wood),  always  ready  for  casualties,  as  fires, 
windfalls,  and  clearings  by  man.  Birds  and  foxes,  etc., 
are  annually  conveying  the  seed  into  the  woods. 

Rice  reminds  me  that  when  the  maples  in  a  blueberry 
swamp  have  got  up  high,  the  blueberries  die,  and  you 
have  at  length  a  maple  wood  clear  of  underwood. 

Remarking  to  old  Mr.  B the  other  day  on  the 

abundance  of  the  apples,  "Yes,"  says  he,  "and  fair  as 
dollars  too."  That  's  the  kind  of  beauty  they  see  in 
apples.  ■ 

Looked  over  Hayden's  farm  and  granary.  He  now 
takes  pleasure  in  his  field  of  com  just  ready  for  harvest- 
ing, —  the  rather  small  ears  fully  filled  out  and  rounded 
at  the  end,  setting  low  and  many  on  one  stalk.  He  loves 
to  estimate  the  number  of  bushels  he  will  have;  has 
already  calculated  the  number  of  hills,  —  some  forty 


•Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


104  JOURNAL  [Oct.  7 

thousand  in  this  fields — and  he  shows  some  one  the  ear 
in  his  granaiy.  Also  his  rye  in  barrels  and  his  seed-corn 
tucked  into  the  mow  as  he  was  husking,  —  the  larger 
and  fuller  ears  picked  out,  with  the  husk  on.  But  all  this 
com  will  be  given  to  his  pigs  and  other  stock.  Three 
great  hogs  weighing  twelve  hundredweight  lie  asleep 
under  his  bam  already  sold.  Hears  of  one  man  who 
sold  his  fat  hog  for  $75.00.  He  has  two  high  and  very 
spreading  apple  trees,  looking  like  one,  they  are  so  close 
together,  from  which  he  gathered  one  year  twenty-one 
barrels  of  sound  Hubbardston's  nonesuch  and  five  bar- 
rels of  windfalls,  grafted  on  to  it  within  a  few  years. 

If  we  have  not  attended  to  the  subject,  we  may  think 
that  the  activity  of  the  animals  is  not  enough  to  account 
for  the  annual  planting  of  such  extensive  tracts;  just  as 
we  wonder  where  all  the  flies  and  other  insects  come 
from  in  the  spring,  because  we  have  not  followed  them 
into  their  winter  quarters  and  counted  them  there.  Yet 
nature  does  preserve  and  multiply  the  race  of  flies  while 
we  are  inattentive  and  sleeping. 

Many  people  have  a  foolish  way  of  talking  about  small 
things,  and  apologize  for  themselves  or  another  having 
attended  to  a  small  thing,  having  neglected  their  ordi- 
nary business  and  amused  or  instructed  themselves  by 
attending  to  a  small  thing;  when,  if  the  truth  were 
known,  their  ordinary  business  was  the  small  thing,  and 
almost  their  whole  lives  were  misspent,  but  they  were 
such  fools  as  not  to  know  it. 

Oct.  8.  P.  M.  —  To  Damon's  wood-lot,  part  of  the 
burnt  district  of  the  spring. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        THE  WOODS  AFTER  A  FIRE         105 

Am  surprised  to  see  how  green  the  forest  floor  and  the 
sprout-land  north  of  Damon's  lot  are  already  again, 
though  it  was  a  very  severe  bum.  In  the  wood-lot  the 
trees  are  apparently  killed  for  twenty  feet  up,  especially 
the  smaller,  then  six  or  ten  feet  of  green  top,  while  very 
vigorous  sprouts  have  shot  up  from  the  base  below  the 
influence  of  the  fire.  This  shows  that  they  will  die,  I 
think.  The  top  has  merely  lived  for  the  season  while  the 
growth  has  been  in  their  sprouts  around  the  base.  This 
is  the  case  with  oaks,  maples,  cherry,  etc.  Also  the  blue- 
berry {Vaccinium  vacillans)  has  sent  up  very  abundant 
and  vigorous  shoots  all  over  the  wood  from  the  now 
more  open  and  cleaned  ground.  These  are  evidently 
from  stocks  which  were  comparatively  puny  before.  The 
adjacent  oak  sprout-land  has  already  sprung  up  so  high 
that  it  makes  on  me  about  the  same  impression  that  it 
did  before,  though  it  [was]  from  six  to  ten  feet  high  and 
was  generally  killed  to  the  ground.  The  fresh  shoots 
from  .the  roots  are  very  abundant  and  three  to  five  feet 
high,  or  half  as  high  as  before.  So  vivacious  are  the 
roots  and  so  rapidly  does  Nature  recover  herself.  You 
see  myriads  of  little  shrub  oaks  and  others  in  the  woods 
which  look  as  if  they  had  just  sprung  from  the  seed, 
but  on  pulling  one  up  you  find  it  to  spring  from  a  long 
horizontal  root  which  has  survived  perhaps  several 
burnings  or  cuttings.  Thus  the  stumps  and  roots  of 
young  oak,  chestnut,  hickory,  maple,  and  many  ot&er 
trees  retain  their  vitality  a  very  long  time  and  after  many 
accidents,  and  produce  thrifty  trees  at  last. 

In  the  midst  of  the  wood,  I  noticed  in  some  places, 
where  the  brush  had  been  more  completely  burned  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


106  JOURNAL  [Oct.  8 

the  ground  laid  bare,  some  fire-weed  (Senecio),  golden- 
rods,  and  ferns. 

Standing  by  a  pigeon-place  on  the  north  edge  [of] 
Damon's  lot,  I  saw  on  the  dead  top  of  a  white  pine  four 
or  five  rods  oflp  —  which  had  been  stripped  for  fifteen 
feet  downward  that  it  might  die  and  afford  with  its 
branches  a  perch  for  the  pigeons  about  the  place,  like 
the  more  artificial  ones  that  were  set  up  —  two  wood- 
peckers that  were  new  to  me.  They  uttered  a  peculiar 
sharp  keic  kek  on  alighting  (not  so  sharp  as  that  of  the 
hairy  or  downy  woodpecker)  and  appeared  to  be  about 
the  size  of  the  hairy  woodpecker,  or  between  that  and  the 
golden-winged.  I  had  a  good  view  of  them  with  my  glass 
as  long  as  I  desired.  With  the  back  to  me,  they  were 
clear  black  all  above,  as  well  as  their  feet  and  bills,  and 
each  had  a  yellow  or  orange  (or  possibly  orange-scarlet  ?) 
front  (the  anterior  part  of  the  head  at  the  base  of  the 
upper  mandible).  A  long  white  line  along  the  side  of  the 
head  to  the  neck,  with  a  black  one  below  it.  The  breast, 
as  near  as  I  could  see,  was  gray  specked  with  white,  and 
the  under  side  of  the  wing  expanded  was  also  gray,  with 
small  white  spots.  The  throat  white  and  vent  also  white 
or  whitish.  Is  this  the  arctic  three-toed  ?  ^  Probably 
many  trees  dying  on  this  large  burnt  tract  will  attract 
many  woodpeckers  to  it. 

I  find  a  great  many  white  oak  acorns  already  sprouted, 
although  they  are  but  half  fallen,  and  can  easily  believe 
that  they  sometimes  sprout  before  they  fall.  It  is  a  good 
year  for  them.    It  is  remarkable  how  soon  and  unac- 

'  Not  of  Nuttall.  [The  birds  must  have  been  arctic  three-toed 
woodpeckers,  though  Thoreau  misplaces  the  yellow  crown-patch.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1860]  THE   RED   MAPLES  107 

countably  they  decay.  Many  which  I  cut  open,  though 
they  look  sound  without,  are  discolored  and  decaying 
on  one  side  or  throughout  within,  though  there  is  no 
worm  in  them.  Perhaps  they  are  very  sensitive  to  mois- 
ture. Those  which  I  see  to-day  are  merely  hazel  and 
not  nearly  so  black  as  what  I  saw  yesterday.  Trees  that 
stand  by  themselves  without  the  wood  bear  the  most. 

The  sugar  maple  seeds  are  now  browned  —  the  seed 
end  as  well  as  wing  —  and  are  ripe.  The  severe  frosts 
about  the  first  of  the  month  ripened  them. 

Oct.  9.  P.  M.  —  Up  Assabet. 

See  one  crow  chasing  two  marsh  hawks  over  E. 
Hosmer's  meadow.  Occasionally  a  hawk  dives  at  the 
crow,  but  the  crow  perseveres  in  pestering  them.  Can 
it  now  have  anything  to  do  with  the  hawk's  habit  of 
catching  young  birds?  In  Uke  manner  smaller  birds 
pursue  crows.  The  crow  is  at  length  joined  by  an- 
other. 

See  several  squirrels'  nests  of  leaves  formed  in  the 
maples  lately. 

Though  the  red  maple^  have  not  their  common  bril- 
liancy on  account  of  the  very  severe  frost  about  the  end 
of  September,  some  are  very  interesting.  You  cannot 
judge  a  tree  by  seeing  it  from  one  side  only.  As  you  go 
round  or  away  from  it,  it  may  overcome  you  with  its 
mass  of  glowing  scarlet  or  yellow  light.  You  need  to 
stand  where  the  greatest  nimiiber  of  leaves  will  transmit 
or  reflect  to  you  most  favorably.  The  tree  which  looked 
comparatively  lifeless,  cold,  and  merely  parti-colored, 
seen  in  a  more  favorable  light  as  you  are  floating  away 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


108  JOURNAL  [Oct.  9 

from  it,  may  affect  you  wonderfully  as  a  warm,  glowing 
drapery.  I  now  see  one  small  red  maple  which  is  all  a 
pure  yellow  within  and  a  bright  red  scarlet  on  its  outer 
surface  and  prominences.  It  is  a  remarkably  distinct 
painting  of  scarlet  on  a  yellow  ground.  It  is  an  inde- 
scribably beautiful  contrast  of  scarlet  and  yellow.  An- 
other is  yellow  and  green  where  this  was  scarlet  and 
yellow,  and  in  this  case  the  bright  and  liquid  green,  now 
getting  to  be  rare,  is  by  contrast  as  charming  a  color 
as  the  scariet. 

I  met  in  the  street  afterward  a  young  lady  who  rowed 
up  the  river  after  me,  and  I  could  tell  exactly  where  she 
plucked  the  maple  twig  which  she  held  in  her  hand. 
It  was  the  one  so  conspicuous  for  a  quarter  of  a  mile  in 
one  reach  of  the  river. 

I  wonder  that  the  very  cows  and  the  dogs  in  the  street 
do  not  manifest  a  recognition  of  the  bright  tints  about 
and  above  them.  I  saw  a  terrier  dog  glance  up  and  down 
the  painted  street  before  he  turned  in  at  his  master's 
gate,  and  I  wondered  what  he  thought  of  those  lit  trees, 
—  if  they  did  not  touch  his  philosophy  or  spirits,  —  but 
I  fear  he  had  only  his  common  doggish  thoughts  after 
all.  He  trotted  down  the  yard  as  if  it  were  a  matter  of 
course  after  all,  or  else  as  if  he  deserved  it  all. 

Wood  ducks  are  about  now,  amid  the  painted  leaves. 

For  two  or  more  nights  past  we  have  had  remarkable 
glittering  golden  sunsets  as  I  came  home  from  the  post- 
oflSce,  it  being  cold  and  cloudy  just  above  the  horizon. 
There  was  the  most  intensely  bright  golden  light  in  the 
west  end  of  the  street,  extending  under  the  elms,  and  the 
very  dust  a  quarter  of  a  mile  off  was  like  gold-dust.    I 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      LILY  PADS  IN   A  NEW   POND        109 

wondered  how  a  child  could  stand  quietly  in  that  light, 
as  if  it  had  been  a  furnace. 

This  haste  to  kill  a  bird  or  quadruped  and  make  a 
skeleton  of  it,  which  many  young  men  and  some  old 
ones  exhibit,  reminds  me  of  the  fable  of  the  man  who 
killed  the  hen  that  laid  golden  eggs,  and  so  got  no  more 
gold.  It  is  a  perfectly  parallel  case.  Such  is  the  know- 
ledge which  you  may  get  from  the  anatomy  as  compared 
with  the  knowledge  you  get  from  the  living  creature. 
Every  fowl  lays  golden  eggs  for  him  who  can  find  them, 
or  can  detect  alloy  and  base  metal. 

Oct,  10.  In  August,  '55f  I  levelled  for  the  artificial 
pond  at  Sleepy  Hollow.  They  dug  gradually  for  three 
or  four  years  and  completed  the  pond  last  year,  '59.  It 
is  now  about  a  dozen  rods  long  by  five  or  six  wide  and 
two  or  three  deep,  and  is  supplied  by  copious  springs  in 
the  meadow.  There  is  a  long  ditch  leading  into  it,  in 
which  no  water  now  flows,  nor  has  since  winter  at  least, 
and  a  short  ditch  leading  out  of  it  into  the  brook.  It  is 
about  sixty  rods  from  the  very  source  of  the  brook.  Well, 
in  this  pond  thus  dug  in  the  midst  of  a  meadow  a  year  or 
two  ago  and  supplied  by  springs  in  the  meadow,  I  find 
to-day  several  small  patches  of  the  large  yellow  and  the 
kalmiana  lily  already  established.  Thus  in  the  midst  of 
death  we  are  in  life.  The  water  is  otherwise  apparently 
clear  of  weeds.  The  river,  where  these  abound,  is  about 
half  a  mile  distant  down  the  little  brook  near  which  this 
pond  lies,  though  there  may  be  a  few  pads  in  the  ditched 
part  of  it  at  half  that  distance.  How,  then,  did  the  seed 
get  here  ?  I  learned  last  winter  {vide  December  23, 1859) 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


110  JOURNAL  [Oct.  10 

that  many  small  pouts  and  some  sizable  pickerel  had 
been  caught  here,  though  the  connection  with  the  brook 
is  a  very  slight  and  shallow  ditch.  I  think,  therefore,  that 
the  lily  seeds  have  been  conveyed  into  this  pond  from  the 
river  immediately,  or  perchance  from  the  meadow 
between,  either  by  fishes,  reptiles,  or  birds  which  fed  on 
them,  and  that  the  seeds  were  not  lying  dormant  in  the 
mud.  You  have  only  to  dig  a  pond  anywhere  in  the 
fields  hereabouts,  and  you  will  soon  have  not  only 
water-fowl,  reptiles,  and  fishes  in  it,  but  also  the  usual 
water-plants,  as  lilies,  etc.  You  will  no  sooiier  have  got 
your  pond  dug  than  nature  will  begin  to  stock  it.  I  sus- 
pect that  turtles  eat  these  seeds,  for  I  often  see  them 
eating  the  decayed  lily  leaves.  If  there  is  any  water 
communication,  perhaps  fishes  arrive  first,  and  then  the 
water-plants  for  their  food  and  shelter. 

Horace  Mann  shows  me  the  skeleton  of  a  blue  heron. 
The  neck  is  remarkably  strong,  and  the  bill.  The  latter  is 
5  +  inches  long  to  the  feathers  above  and  6^  to  the  gape. 
A  stake-driver  which  he  has,  freshly  killed,  has  a  bill  3 
inches  long  above  and  4  J  to  the  gape  and  between  f  and 
I  deep  vertically  at  the  base.  This  bird  weighs  a  little 
over  two  pounds,  being  quite  large  and  fat.  Its  nails  are 
longer  and  less  curved  than  those  of  the  heron.  The 
sharp  bill  of  the  heron,  like  a  stout  pick,  wielded  by  that 
long  and  stout  neck,  would  be  a  very  dangerous  weapon 
to  encounter.  He  has  made  a  skeleton  of  the  fish  hawk 
which  was  brought  to  me  within  a  month.  I  remark  the 
great  eye-sockets,  and  the  claws,  and  perhaps  the  deep, 
sharp  breast-bone.  Including  its  strong  hooked  bill  it  is 
clawed  at  both  ends,  harpy-like. 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


1860]  FIRE  AND  WATER  111 

P.  M.  —  Went  to  a  fire  —  or  smoke  —  at  Mrs.  Hoar*s. 
There  is  a  slight  blaze  and  moie  smoke.  Two  or  three 
hundred  men  rush  to  the  house,  cut  large  holes  in  the 
roof,  throw  many  hogsheads  of  water  into  it,  —  when 
a  few  pails  full  well  directed  would  suflSce,  —  and  then 
they  run  off  again,  leaving  your  attic  three  inches  deep 
with  water,  which  is  rapidly  descending  through  the 
ceiling  to  the  basement  and  spoiling  all  that  can  be 
spoiled,  while  a  torrent  is  running  down  the  stairways. 
They  were  very  forward  to  put  out  the  [fire],  but  they 
take  no  pains  to  put  out  the  water,  which  does  far  more 
damage.  The  first  was  amusement;  the  last  would  be 
mere  work  and  utility.  Why  is  there  not  a  little  ma- 
chine invented  to  throw  the  water  out  of  a  house  ? 

They  are  hopelessly  cockneys  everywhere  who  learn 
to  swim  with  a  machine.  They  take  neither  disease  nor 
health,  nay,  nor  life  itself,  the  natural  way.  I  see  dumb- 
bells in  the  minister's  study,  and  some  of  their  dumbness 
gets  into  his  sermons.  Some  travellers  carry  them  round 
the  world  in  their  carpetbags.  Can  he  be  said  to  travel 
who  requires  still  this  exercise  ?  A  party  of  school-chil- 
dren had  a  picnic  at  the  Easterbrooks  Country  the  other 
[day],  and  they  carried  bags  of  beans  from  their  gym- 
nasium to  exercise  with  there.  I  cannot  be  interested 
in  these  extremely  artificial  amusements.  The  traveller 
is  no  longer  a  wayfarer,  with  his  staff  and  pack  and 
dusty  coat.  He  is  not  a  pilgrim,  but  he  travels  in  a 
saloon,  and  carries  dumb-bells  to  exercise  with  in  the 
intervals  of  his  journey. 

Oct.  (10  and)  11.  P.  M.— To  Sleepy  Hollow  and 
north  of  M.  Pratt's. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


112  JOURNAL  [Oct.  11 

There  is  a  remarkably  abundant  crop  of  white  oak 
acorns  this  fall,  also  a  fair  crop  of  red  oak  acoms;  but 
not  of  scarlet  and  black,  very  few  of  them.  Which  is  as 
well  for  the  squirrel.  The  acorns  are  now  in  the  very 
midst  of  their  fall.  The  white  oak  acorn  is  about  the 
prettiest  of  ours.  They  are  a  glossy  hazel  (while  the  red 
and  black  are  more  or  less  downy  at  first)  and  of  various 
forms,  —  some  nearly  spherical  but  commonly  oblong 
and  pointed,  some  more  slender  oval  or  elliptical;  and 
of  various  shades  of  brown,  —  some  almost  black,  but 
generally  a  wholesome  hazel.  Those  which  have  fallen 
longest,  and  been  exposed  to  the  severe  frosts  on  the 
ground,  are  partly  bleached  there.  The  white  oak  acoms 
are  found  chiefly  on  trees  growing  in  the  open  or  on  the 
edge  of  the  wood,  and  on  the  most  exposed  side  of  these 
trees.   They  grow  either  singly  or  in  twos  and  threes. 

This  afternoon  (11th)  the  strong  wind  which  arose  at 
noon  has  strewn  the  ground  with  them.  I  could  gather 
many  bushels  in  a  short  time.  This  year  is  as  good  for 
white  oak  acoms  as  for  apples  and  pears.  What  pleasant 
picking  on  the  firm,  green  pasture  sod  which  is  browned 
with  this  glossy  fmit!  The  worms  are  already  at  work 
in  them,  —  sometimes  three  or  four  in  one,  —  and  some 
are  already  decayed  and  decaying  on  the  tree  without 
a  worm.  The  fibery  [.nc]  inner  bark  of  the  nut  appears 
to  retain  moisture  and  hasten  rot,  especially  when  the 
fmit  has  once  been  swollen  by  the  wet.  The  best  time  to 
gather  these  nuts  is  now,  when  a  strong  wind  has  arisen 
suddenly  in  the  day,  before  the  squirrels  have  preceded 
you;  and  so  of  chestnuts. 

Of  red  oak  acoms,  some  are  short  and  broad,  others 


Digitized  by  LjOOQ  IC 


1860]        THE  ARISTOCRATIC   PEARS  113 

longer.  I  see  some  pretty  shrub  oak  acorns  longitu- 
dinally striped.  Chestnuts  also  are  frequently  striped, 
but  before  they  have  been  exposed  to  the  light,  and  are 
completely  ripe. 

The  season  is  as.  favorable  for  pears  as  for  apples. 
R.  W.  E.'s  garden  is  strewn  with  them.  They  are  not 
so  handsome  as  apples,  —  are  of  more  earthy  and 
homely  colors,  —  yet  they  are  of  a  wholesome  color 
enough.  Many,  inclining  to  a  rough  msset  or  even  fer- 
ruginous, both  to  touch  (rusty)  and  eye,  look  as  if  they 
were  proof  against  frost.  After  all,  the  few  varieties  of 
wild  pears  here  have  more  color  and  are  handsomer  than 
the  many  celebrated  varieties  that  are  cultivated.  The 
cultivated  are  commonly  of  so  dull  a  color  that  it  is  hard 
to  distinguish  them  from  the  leaves,  and  if  there  are  but 
two  or  three  left  you  do  not  see  them  revealing  them- 
selves distinctly  at  a  distance  amid  the  leaves,  as  apples 
do,  but  I  see  that  the  gatherer  has  overlooked  half  a 
dozen  large  ones  on  this  small  tree,  which  were  con- 
cealed by  their  perfect  resemblance  to  the  leaves,  —  a 
yellowish  green,  spotted  with  darker-green  rust  or 
fungi  (  ? ).  Yet  some  have  a  fair  cheek,  and,  generally,  in 
their  form  they  are  true  pendants,  as  if  shaped  ex- 
pressly to  hang  from  the  trees. 

They  are  a  more  aristocratic  fruit.  How  much  more 
attention  they  get  from  the  proprietor!  The  hired  man 
gathers  the  apples  and  barrels  them.  The  proprietor 
plucks  the  pears  at  odd  hours  for  a  pastime,  and  his 
daughter  wraps  them  each  in  its  paper.  They  are,  per- 
chance, put  up  in  the  midst  of  a  barrel  of  Baldwins  as  if 
something  more  precious  than  these.    They  are  spread 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


114  JOURNAL  [Oct.  11 

on  the  floor  of  the  best  room.  They  are  a  gift  to  the  most 
distinguished  guest.  Judges  and  ex- judges  and  honor- 
ables  are  connoisseurs  of  pears,  and  discourse  of  them 
at  length  between  sessions.  / 1  hold  in  my  hand  a  Bonne 
Louise  which  is  covered  with  minute  brown  specks  or 
dots  one  twelfth  to  one  sixteenth  [of  an  inch]  apart, 
largest  and  most  developed  on  the  sunny  side,  quite 
regular  and  handsome,  as  if  they  were  the  termination 
or  operculum  of  pores  which  had  burst  in  the  very  thin 
pellicle  of  the  fruit,  producing  a  slight  roughness  to  the 
touch.  Each  of  these  little  ruptures,  so  to  call  them,  is  in 
form  a  perfect  star  with  five  rays;  so  that,  if  the  apple 
is  higher-colored,  reflecting  the  sun,  on  the  duller  sur- 
face of  this  pear  the  whole  firmament  with  its  stars  shines 
forth.  They  whisper  of  the  happy  stars  under  whose 
influence  they  have  grown  and  matured.  It  is  not  the 
case  with  all  of  them,  but  only  the  more  perfect  speci- 
mens. 

Pears,  it  is  truly  said,  are  less  poetic  than  apples. 
They  have  neither  the  beauty  nor  the  fragrance  of 
apples,  but  their  excellence  is  in  their  flavor,  which 
speaks  to  a  grosser  sense.  They  are  glouts-morceaux. 
Hence,  while  children  dream  of  apples,  ex- judges  realize 
pears.  They  are  named  after  emperors  and  kings  and 
queens  and  dukes  and  duchesses.  I  fear  I  shall  have  to 
wait  till  we  get  to  pears  with  American  names,  which  a 
republican  can  swallow. 

Looking  through  a  more  powerful  glass,  those  little 
brown  dots  are  stars  with  from  four  to  six  rays,  —  com- 
monly five,  —  where  a  little  wart-like  prominence  (per- 
haps the  end  of  a  pore  or  a  thread)  appears  to  have 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  WHITE  OAK  YEAR  115 

burst  through  the  very  thin  pellicle  and  burst  it  into  so 
many  rays. 

Oct.  13.    P.  M.  —  Up  river. 

I  find  no  new  cones  on  Monroe's  larch  by  the  river, 
but  many  old  ones  (the  same  was  the  case  wjth  the  hem- 
locks on  Assabet),  unless  those  imperfect  ones  with  a 
twig  growing  from  their  extremity  were  this  year's,  — 
but  I  think  they  were  last  year's.  Last  year  both  white 
pine,  hemlock,  and  larches  bore  abundantly  and  there 
were  very  few  white  oak  acorns.  This  year,  so  far  as  I 
observe,  there  "are  scarcely  any  white  pine  cones  (were 
there  any  ?)  or  hemlock  or  larch,  and  a  great  abundance 
of  white  oak  acorns  in  all  parts  of  the  town.  So  far  as  I 
have  observed,  if  pines  or  oaks  bear  abundantly  one 
year  they  bear  little  or  nothing  the  next  year.  This  is  a 
white  oak  year,  not  a  pine  year.  It  is  also  an  apple  and  a 
potato  year.  I  should  think  that  there  might  be  a  bushel 
or  two  of  acorns  on  and  under  some  single  trees.  There 
are  but  few  in  the  woods.  Those  spreading  trees  that 
stand  in  open  pastures  fully  exposed  to  the  light  and  air 
are  the  most  fertile  ones.  I  rejoice  when  the  white  oaks 
bear  an  abundant  crop.  I  speak  of  it  to  many  whom  I 
meet,  but  I  find  few  to  sympathize  with  me.  They  seem 
to  care  much  more  for  potatoes.  The  Indians  say  that 
many  acorns  are  a  sign  of  a  cold  winter.  It  is  a  cold  fall 
at  any  rate. 

The  shore  at  Clamshell  is  greened  with  pontederia 
seed  which  has  floated  up  and  been  left  there,  with  some 
button-bush  seed  and  some  of  those  slender  bulbs  of  the 
lysimachia  and  those   round  green   leaf-buds  of  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


116  JOURNAL  [Oct.  13 

Utricularia  vulgaris.  Thus,  probably,  are  all  these  dis- 
persed. I  also  see  large  masses  of  the  last-named  weed 
lodged  against  the  bridges,  etc.,  with  the  conspicuous 
greener  leaf-buds  attached.  I  find  no  yellow  lily  seeds, 
only  a  few  white  lily  seed-pods.  These  are  full  of  seeds 
the  color  of  apple  seeds  and  but  a  quarter  as  big.  They 
sink  in  water  as  soon  as  the  slimy  matter  which  . 

invests  them  is  washed  off.  I  see  a  white  lily  q; 
stem  coiled  up  with  many  whorls  like  a  wire  & 
spring.  They  are  almost  only  white  lily  pads  that  ^ 
are  left  now. 

There  is  some  of  the  fresh-water  sponge  in  this  the 
main  stream  too. 

The  F,  hyemalis  back,  and  I  think  I  see  and  hear  the 
shore  larks. 

The  shrub  oaks  on  J.  Hosmer's  hillside  this  side  of 
HoUowell  place  have  already  passed  the  height  of  their 
beauty.    Is  it  not  early  on  account  of  frost  ? 

At  Holden  Swamp.  —  Now,  as  soon  as  the  frost  strips 
the  maples,  and  their  leaves  strew  the  swamp  floor  and 
conceal  the  pools,  the  note  of  the  chickadee  sounds 
cheerfully  wintryish. 

I  see  many  pine  and  oak  tree  tops  in  the  woods  that 
were  blown  off  last  spring.  They  lie  many  rods  from 
their  trunks,  so  that  I  have  to  look  a  little  while  to  tell 
where  they  came  from.  Moreover,  the  butt  of  the  piece 
over  which  I  stand  looks  so  large  compared  with  the 
broken  shaft  up  there  so  high  that  I  at  first  feel  sure  it  did 
not  come  from  there,  —  which  [?]  it  did,  — and  so  am 
puzzled  to  locate  it. 

The  lentago  fruit  is  quite  sweet  and  reminds  me  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        SCIENTIFIC   DESCRIPTIONS  117 

dates  in  their  somewhat  mealy  pulp.  It  has  large  flat 
black  seeds,  somewhat  like  watermelon  seeds,  but  not 
so  long. 

The  scientific  differs  from  the  poetic  or  Uvely  descrip- 
tion somewhat  as  the  photographs,  which  we  so  weary  of 
viewing,  from  paintings  and  sketches,  though  this  com- 
parison is  too  favorable  to  science.  All  science  is  only  a 
makeshift,  a  means  to  an  end  which  is  never  attained. 
After  all,  the  truest  description,  and  that  by  which  ai>A 
other  Uving  man  can  most  readily  recognize  a  flower,  is  ' 
the  unmeasured  and  eloquent  one  which  the  sight  of  it . 
inspires.    No  scientific  description  will  supply  the  want/ 
of  this,  though  you  should  count  and  measure  and  ana- 
lyze every  atom  that  seems  to  compose  it. 

Surely  poetry  and  eloquence  are  a  more  universal 
language  than  that  Latin  which  is  confessedly  dead. 
In  science,  I  should  say,  all  description  is  postponed 
till  we  know  the  whole,  but  then  science  itself  will  be 
cast  aside.  But  unconsidered  expressions  of  our  deUght 
which  any  natural  object  draws  from  us  are  something 
complete  and  final  in  themselves,  since  all  nature  is  to  be 
regarded  as  it  concerns  man;  and  who  knows  how  near 
to  absolute  truth  such  unconscious  affirmations  may 
come?  Which  are  the  truest,  the  sublime  conceptions 
of  Hebrew  poets  and  seers^  or  the  guarded  statements  of 
modem  geologists,  which  we  must  modify  or  unlearn  so 
fast? 

As  they  who  were  present  early  at  the  discovery  of  gold 
in  California,  and  observed  the  sudden  fall  in  its  value, 
have  most  truly  described  that  state  of  things,  so  it  is 
commonly  the  old  naturalists  who  first  received  Amer- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


118  JOURNAL  [Oct.  13 

ican  plants  that  describe  them  best.  A  scientific  descrip- 
tion is  such  as  you  would  get  if  you  should  send  out  the 
scholars  of  the  polytechnic  school  with  all  sorts  of  metres 
made  and  patented  to  take  the  measures  for  you  of  any 
natural  object.  In  a  sense  you  have  got  nothing  new 
thus,  for  every  object  that  we  see  mechanically  is  me- 
chanically daguerreotyped  on  our  eyes,  but  a  true 
description  growing  out  [of  ]  the  perception  and  appre- 
ciation of  it  is  itself  a  new  fact,  never  to  be  daguerreo- 
typed, indicating  the  highest  quality  of  the  plant,  —  its 
relation  to  man,  —  of  far  more  importance  than  any 
merely  medicinal  quality  that  it  may  possess,  or  be 
thought  to-day  to  possess.  There  is  a  certainty  and 
permanence  about  this  kind  of  observation,  too,  that 
does  not  belong  to  the  other,  for  every  flower  and  weed 
has  its  day  in  the  medical  pharmacopoeia,  but  the  beauty 
of  flowers  is  perennial  in  the  taste  of  men. 

Truly  this  is  a  world  of  vain  delights.  We  think  that 
men  have  a  substratum  of  common  sense  but  some- 
times are  peculiarly  frivolous.  But  consider  what  a 
value  is  seriously  and  permanently  attached  to  gold  and 
so-called  precious  stones  almost  universally.  Day  and 
night,  summer  and  winter,  sick  or  well,  in  war  and  in 
peace,  men  speak  of  and  believe  in  gold  as  a  great  trea- 
sure. By  a  thousand  comparisons  they  prove  their  devo- 
tion to  it.  If  wise  men  or  true  philosophers  bore  any 
considerable  proportion  to  the  whole  number  of  men, 
gold  would  be  treated  with  no  such  distinction.  Men 
seriously  and,  if  possible,  religiously  believe  in  and  wor- 
ship gold.  They  hope  to  earn  golden  opinions,  to  cele- 
brate their  golden  wedding.   They  dream  of  the  golden 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]         THE  BEST  DESCRIPTIONS  119 

age.  Now  it  is  not  its  intrinsic  beauty  or  value,  but  its 
rari^  and  arbitrarily  attached  value,  that  distinguishes 
gold.    You  would  think  it  was  the  reign  of  shams. 

The  one  description  interests  those  chiefly  who  have 
not  seen  the  thing;  the  other  chiefly  interests  those  who 
have  seen  it  and  are  most  familiar  with  it,  and  brings 
it  home  to  the  reader.  We  like  to  read  a  good  descrip- 
tion of  no  thing  so  well  as  of  that  which  we  already  know 
the  best,  as  our  friend,  or  ourselves  even.  In  proportion 
as  we  get  and  are  near  to  our  object,  we  do  without  the 
measured  or  scientific  account,  which  is  like  the  measure 
they  take,  or  the  description  they  write,  of  a  man  when 
he  leaves  his  country,  and  insert  in  his  passport  for  the 
use  of  the  detective  police  of  other  countries.  The  men 
of  science  merely  look  at  the  object  with  sinister  eye,  to 
see  if  [it]  corresponds  with  the  passport,  and  merely 
vise  or  make  some  trifling  additional  mark  on  its  pass- 
port and  let  it  go ;  but  the  real  acquaintances  and  friends 
which  it  may  have  in  foreign  parts  do  not  ask  to  see  nor 
think  of  its  passport. 

Grerard  has  not  only  heard  of  and  seen  and  raised  a 
plant,  but  felt  and  smelled  and  tasted  it,  applying  all  his 
senses  to  it.  You  are  not  distracted  from  the  thing  to  the 
system  or  arrangement.  In  the  true  natural  order  the 
order  or  system  is  not  insisted  on.  Each  is  first,  and 
each  last.  That  which  presents  itself  to  us  this  moment 
occupies  the  whole  of  the  present  and  rests  on  the  very 
topmost  point  of  the  sphere,  under  the  zenith.  The 
species  and  individuals  of  all  the  natural  kingdoms  ask 
our  attention  and  admiration  in  a  round  robin.  We 
make  straight  lines,  putting  a  captain  at  their  head  and  a 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


120  JOURNAL  [Oct.  13 

lieutenant  at  their  tails,  with  sergeants  and  corporals  all 
along  the  line  and  a  flourish  of  trumpets  near  the  begin- 
ning, insisting  on  a  particular  uniformity  where  Nature 
has  made  curves  to  which  belongs  their  own  sphere- 
music.  It  is  indispensable  for  us  to  square  her  circles, 
and  we  offer  our  rewards  to  him  who  will  do  it. 

Who  [sic]  describes  the  most  familiar  object  with  a 
zest  and  vividness  of  imagery  as  if  he  saw  it  for  the  first 
time,  the  novelty  consisting  not  in  the  strangeness  of 
the  object,  but  in  the  new  and  clearer  perception  of  it. 

Oct.  14.  This  year,  on  account  of  the  very  severe 
frosts,  the  trees  change  and  fall  early,  or  fall  before  fairly 
changing.  The  willows  have  the  bleached  look  of  No- 
vember. Consider  how  many  leaves  there  are  to  fall 
each  year  and  how  much  they  must  add  to  the  soil. 
Coultas  (in  **  What  may  be  Learned  from  a  Tree  ")  finds 
that  a  single  beech  twig  twenty-seven  inches  and  three 
Unes  long  and  six  years  old  was  "  the  leaf -labor  of  one 
hundred  and  fifty-five  leaves,"  and  quotes  from  Asa 
Gray's  "  First  Lessons  in  Botany  "  that  **  the  Washing- 
ton Elm  at  Cambridge  —  a  tree  of  no  extraordinary 
size  —  was  some  years  ago  estimated  to  produce  a  crop 
of  seven  millions  of  leaves,  exposing  a  surface  of  200,000 
square  feet,  or  about  five  acres,  of  foliage."  Supposing 
this  to  be  true,  and  that  the  horizontal  spread  of  this 
(like  other  the  largest  elms)  is  one  hundred  feet,  then, 
if  all  its  leaves  should  be  spread  evenly  on  the  ground 
directly  under  it,  there  would  be  about  twenty-five 
thicknesses.  An  ordinary  forest  would  probably  cover 
the  ground  as  thickly  as  this  tree  would.    Supposing  a 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      VIVACIOUS   ROOTS  OF  TREES        1«1 

leaf  to  be  of  the  same  thickness  with  an  ordinary  sheet 
of  letter-paper,  and  that  the  mass  is  compressed  as  much 
as  paper  packed  in  a  ream,  the  twenty-fiye  would  be 
about  one  sixteenth  of  an  inch  thick.  This  is  a  rude 
calculation. 

We  have  had  a  remarkably  fertile  year.  Let  us  see 
now  if  we  have  a  cold  winter  after  it. 

P.  M.  —  Up  Groton  Turnpike. 

If  you  examine  a  wood-lot  after  numerous  fires  and 
cuttings,  you  will  be  surprised  to  find  how  extremely 
vivacious  are  the  roots  of  oaks,  chestnuts,  hickories, 
.  birches,  cherries,  etc.  The  little  trees  which  look  like 
seedlings  of  the  year  will  be  found  commonly  to  spring 
from  an  older  root  or  horizontal  shoot  or  a  stump.  Those 
layers  which  you  may  have  selected  to  transplant  will 
be  found  to  have  too  much  of  old  stump  and  root  under- 
ground to  be  removed.  They  have  commonly  met  with 
accidents  and  seen  a  good  deal  of  the  world  already. 
They  have  learned  to  endure  and  bide  their  time.  When 
you  see  an  oak  fully  grown  and  of  fair  proportions,  you 
little  suspect  what  di£Sculties  it  may  have  encountered  in 
its  early  youth,  what  sores  it  has  overgrown,  how  for 
years  it  was  a  feeble  layer  lurking  under  the  leaves  and 
scarcely  daring  to  show  its  head  above  them,  burnt  and 
cut,  and  browsed  by  rabbits.  Driven  back  to  earth  again 
twenty  times,  —  as  often  as  it  aspires  to  the  heavens. 
The  soil  of  the  forest  is  crowded  with  a  mass  of  these 
old  and  tough  fibres,  annually  sending  up  their  shoots 
here  and  there.  The  undergi-ound  part  survives  and 
holds  its  own,  though  the  top  meets  with  countless  acci- 
dents; so  that,  although  seeds  were  not  to  be  supplied 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


122  JOURNAL  [Oct.  14 

for  many  years,  there  would  still  spring  up  shoots 
enough  to  stock  it.  So  with  the  old  and  feeble  huckle- 
beny  roots.  Nay,  even  the  sedge  (Carex  Pennsylvanica) 
is  already  rooted  in  most  woods,  and  at  once  begins  to 
spread  and  prevail  when  the  wood  is  cut,  especially  if  a 
frost  or  fire  keeps  down  the  new  wood. 

I  examine  the  John  Hosmer  wood-lot  (sprout-land) 
cut  oflF  last  winter  on  the  north  side  at  Colbum  Hill. 
Next  to  the  conspicuous  sprouts  from  the  large  stumps 
(of  which  the  white  birch  have  here  grown  the  most,  — 
commonly  four  or  five  feet)  you  notice  an  increased 
growth  of  weeds,  as  goldenrods  (especially  S,  puberula), 
the  two  fire-weeds,  asters,  everlasting  (fragrant),  hawk- 
weeds,  yarrow,  low  blackberry,  cinquefoil,  etc.  All  of 
these,  I  believe,  except  the  erechthites,  are  perennials, 
and  those  which  blossomed  this  year  (with  this  excep- 
tion) must  have  sprung  up  before  the  wood  was  cut. 
The  others  were  probably  planted  last  fall  or  in  the 
winter,  unless  their  seed  endures  in  the  soil.  I  see,  for 
example,  what  I  consider  seedling  goldenrods,  everlast- 
ing, and  yarrow,  i.  e.  mere  radical  leaves  without  any 
stem,  which  will  bloom  next  year.  The  seedling  trees 
of  this  year,  of  course,  will  be  scarcely  noticed  among 
the  sprouts  and  weeds.  I  chance  to  see  none.  I  see, 
however,  many  young  black  cherry  trees,  three  to  six 
inches  high,  which  are  just  three  years  old,  with  roots 
partly  coiled  up  (as  if  they  had  met  with  difficulties  in 
their  upward  growth)  and  much  larger  than  their  stems. 
These,  then,  were  planted  in  the  midst  of  this  pine  and 
oak  and  birch  wood  at  least  two  years  before  it  was  cut, 
though  the  tree  they  came  from  is  so  far  oflF  that  I  know 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BLACK  CHERRY  TREES  123 

not  where  it  is,  and  they  have  not  eflFectually  risen  above 
the  surface  till  this  year.  If  you  look  through  a  sprout- 
land  you  will  find  no  tree,  not  strictly  speaking  a  forest 
tree,  and  which  at  the  same  time  did  not  attain  to  its 
growth  there  before,  so  common  as  these  little  black 
cherries,  the  birds  having  conveyed  the  stones  into  the 
midst  of  the  woods  and  dropped  them  there;  i.  e.  they 
are  planted  chiefly  before  the  wood  is  cut.  These  cheny 
trees  are,  however,  short-lived.  They  live  a  few  years  and 
bear  large  and  pleasant-tasted  fruit,  but  when  the  forest 
trees  have  grown  up  around  them  they  die. 

I  see  that  a  great  part  of  the  club-moss  (Lycopodium 
complanatum)  which  was  so  abundant  in  the  lower  part 
of  this  wood  has  already  been  killed,  and  is  completely 
withered  and  bleached  white,  probably  by  the  cold  last 
winter,  if  not  also  by  exposure  to  the  light  and  heat  of 
the  summer. 

This  lot  is  thickly  covered  with  the  rubbish  or  tops.  I 
suspect  that  it  is,  on  the  whole,  better  to  leave  this  than 
to  clear  the  ground,  —  that  when  it  is  not  too  thick  (as 
masses  of  pine-tops)  it  is  an  important  protection  to  the 
seedling  trees  (gardeners  find  that  seedling  pines  require 
shade  in  their  nurseries),  and  of  course  the  soil  is  en- 
riched by  its  decay. 

Under  one  white  oak  where,  on  the  8th,  the  ground 
was  strewn  with  acorns,  I  find  but  a  single  sound  one 
left  to-day,  and  under  another,  though  many  acorns  are 
left,  all  of  them  are  decayed,  so  rapidly  are  they  gathered 
by  the  squirrels.  I  take  them  from  the  tree  already 
decayed  without  a  worm  in  them.  Far  the  greater  part 
that  you  find  destroyed  (this  does  not  include  those 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


124  JOURNAL  [Oct.  14 

eaten  by  animals)  have  thus  decayed,  and  I  think  that 
the  cause  was  the  severe  frost  of  about  October  1st, 
which  especially  injured  those  on  the  ground.  It  is  sur- 
prising that  any  escape  the  winter.  I  am  not  sure  that 
white  oak  acoms  do  (as  I  am  that  many  scarlet  and  red 
oak,  etc.,  do).  These  are  not  protected  by  any  downi- 
ness, and  their  shoots  and  leaves  I  know  are  the  most 
tender  in  the  i^ring.  Probably  almost  all  the  white  oak 
acoms  would  be  destroyed  by  frost  if  left  on  the  surface 
in  pastures,  and  so  it  may  be  that  more  escape  because 
the  squirrels  carry  them  oflF  and  bury  them,  or  leave 
them  imder  the  shelter  of  the  woods  and  leaves,  though 
they  consume  so  many,  than  would  if  they  were  not 
disturbed.  Also  I  find  many  full-grown  worms  in  them, 
and  the  acorn  all  powder,  on.  the  tree. 

Do  I  not  see  yellow-crowned  warblers  ?  Much  yellow 
on  shoulders  or  sides,  and  white  in  wings  when  they  fly.* 

Acoms  that  fall,  in  open  pastures  decay  so  fast  that  you 
might  wonder  how  any  survived  the  winter,  but  the  fact 
is  that  they  are  not  suflFered  to  lie  long,  but  are  picked 
up  and  carried  oflF  by  animals,  and  either  deposited  in 
holes  or  buried  under  the  leaves  in  the  forest,  or  con- 
sumed; and  so,  probably,  more  of  these  survive  than 
would  if  they  were  not  carried  oflF. 

Oct.  16.   P.  M.  —  To  White  Pond  and  neighborhood. 

As  a  consequence  of  the  diflFerent  manner  in  which 

trees  which  have  winged  seeds  and  those  which  have 

not  are  planted,  —  the  [former]  being  blown  together  in 

one  direction  by  the  wind,  the  latter  being  dispersed  ir- 

'  Yes.  They  fly  up  against  the  windows  the  next  day. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE    FORMS   OF  PINE   GROVES       125 

regularly  by  animals,  —  I  observe  that  the  former,  as 
pines  (which  (the  white)  are  said  in  the  primitive  wood 
to  grow  in  communities),  white  birches,  red  maples, 
alders,  etc.,  often  grow  in  more  or  less  regular  rounded 
or  oval  or  conical  patches,  as  the  seeds  fell,  while  oaks, 
chestnuts,  hickories,  etc.,  simply  form  woods  of  greater 
or  less  extent  whether  by  themselves  or  mixed;  i.  e., 
they  do  not  naturally  spring  up  in  an  oval  form  (or  ellip- 
tical) unless  they  derive  it  from  the  pines  under  which 
they  were  planted. 

For  example,  take  this  young  white  pine  wood  half  a 
dozen  yea-rs  old,  which  has  sprung  up  in  a  pasture  adja- 
cent to  a  wood  of  oaks  and  pines  mixed.  It  has  the  form 
of  a  broad  crescent,  or  half-moon,  with  its  diameter 
resting  on  the  old  wood  near  where  a  large  white  pine 
stood.  It  is  true  most  such  groves  are  early  squared  by 
our  plows  and  fences,  for  we  square  these  circles  every 
day  in  our  rude  practice.  And  in  the  same  manner  often 
they  fall  in  a  sprout-land  amid  oaks,  and  I,  looking  from 
a  hilltop,  can  distinguish  in  distant  old  woods  still,  of 
pine  and  oak  mixed,  these  more  exclusive  and  regular 
communities  of  pine,  a  dozen  or  more  rods  wide,  while 
it  is  the  oak  commonly  that  fills  up  the  irregular  crevices, 
beside  occupying  extensive  spaces  itself.  So  it  happens 
that,  as  the  pines  themselves  and  their  fruit  have  a  more 
regularly  conical  outline  than  deciduous  trees,  the  groves 
they  form  also  have. 

Our  wood-lots,  of  course,  have  a  history,  and  we  may 
often  recover  it  for  a  hundred  years  back,  though  we  do 
not.  A  small  pine  lot  may  be  a  side  of  such  an  oval,  or 
a  half,  or  a  square  in  the  inside  with  all  the  curving  sides 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


126  JOURNAL  [Oct.  16 

cut  off  by  fences.  Yet  if  we  attended  more  to  the  history 
of  our  lots  we  should  manage  them  more  wisely. 

Looking  round,  I  observe  at  a  distance  an  oak  wood- 
lot  some  twenty  years  old,  with  a  dense  narrow  edging 
of  pitch  pines  about  a  rod  and  a  half  wide  and  twenty- 
five  or  thirty  years  old  along  its  whole  southern  side, 
which  is  straight  and  thirty  or  forty  rods  long,  and,  next 
to  it,  an  open  field  or  pasture.  It  presents  a  very  singular 
appearance,  because  the  oak  wood  is  broad  and  has  no 
pines  within  it,  while  the  narrow  edging  is  perfectly 
straight  and  dense,  and  pure  pine.  It  is  the  more  re- 
markable at  this  season  because  the  oak  is  all  red  and  yel- 
low and  the  pine  all  green.  I  understand  it  and  read  its 
history  easily  before  I  get  to  it.  I  find,  as  I  expected,  a 
fence  separating  the  pines  from  the  oaks,  or  that  they  be- 
long to  different  owners.  I  also  find,  as  I  expected,  that 
eighteen  or  twenty  years  ago  a  pitch  pine  wood  had  stood 
where  the  oaks  are,  and  was  then  cut  down,  for  there  are 
their  old  stumps.  But  before  they  were  cut,  their  seeds 
were  blown  into  the  neighbor's  field,  and  the  Uttle  pines 
came  up  all  along  its  edge,  and  they  grew  so  thickly  and 
so  fast  that  that  neighbor  refrained  at  last  from  plowing 
them  up  or  cutting  them  off,  for  just  this  rod  and  a  half 
in  width,  where  they  were  thickest,  and  moreover, 
though  there  are  no  sizable  oaks  mixed  with  these  pines, 
the  whole  surface  even  of  this  narrow  strip  is  as  usual 
completely  stocked  with  little  seedling  oaks  less  than  a 
foot  high.  But  I  ask,  if  the  neighbor  so  often  lets  this 
narrow  edging  grow  up,  why  not  often,  by  the  same  rule, 
let  them  spread  over  the  whole  of  his  field  ?  When  at 
length  he  sees  how  they  have  grown,  does  he  not  often 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  WOOD-LOT  HISTORIES  127 

regret  that  he  did  not  do  so  ?  Or  why  be  dependent, 
even  to  this  extent,  on  these  windfalls  from  our  neigh- 
bors' trees,  or  an  accident  ?  Why  not  control  our  own 
woods  and  destiny  more?  (This  was  north  from  the 
lane  beyond  Conant's  handsome  wood.)  There  are  many 
such  problems  in  forest  geometry  to  be  solved. 

Again,  I  read  still  further  back  a  more  varied  story. 
Take  the  line  between  Rice  and  G>nant  (?)  or  Gar- 
field ( ? ).  Here  is  a  green  strip  of  dense  pitch  and  white 
pine  some  thirty  or  forty  rods  long  by  four  wide  and 
thirty  years  old.  On  the  east  side  is  a  lai^  red  and  yel- 
low [sic]  oak  wood-lot,  the  nearest  part  of  it  some  dozen 
or  more  years  old,  and  on  the  west  a  strip  three  rods  wide 
of  little  white  and  pitch  pines  four  to  ten  feet  high  that 
have  sprung  up  in  the  open  land,  and  next  to  these  is 
an  open  field  occasionally  cultivated. 
Given  these  facts,  to  find  the  wall.  If 
you  think  a  moment  you  will  know  with- 
out my  telling  you  that  it  is  between  the 
pine  wood  and  the  oak.  Some  dozen  or 
more  years  ago  there  was  a  large  pine 
wood  extending  up  to  the  wall  on  the 
west,  and  then  an  open  field  belonging 
to  another  man.  But,  as  before,  the 
pine  seed  had  blown  over  the  wall  and 
ta]cen  so  well  that  for  four  rods  in 
width  it  was  suffered  to  grow,  or  rather 
may  be  said  to  have  defended  itself  and  . 
crowded  the  farmer  back  (no  thanks 
to  him).  But  when,  some  fifteen  years 
ago,  the  old  pine  wood  was  cut  by  its  owner,  the  other 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


128  JOURNAL  [Oct.  16 

was  not  ready  to  cut  his  younger  one.  This  is  now 
about  thirty  years  old  and  for  many  years  it  has  been 
endeavoring  to  spread  into  the  open  land  by  its  side, 
as  its  parents  did,  but  for  a  long  time  the  proprietor, 
not  taking  the  hint,  blind  to  his  own  interests,  plowed 
quite  up  to  the  edge  of  the  wood,  as  I  noticed,  —  and 
got  a  few  beans  for  his  pains.  But  the  pines  (which 
he  did  not  plant)  grew  white  he  slept,  and  at  length,  one 
spring,  he  gave  up  the  contest  and  concluded  at  last  to 
plow  only  within  three  rods  of  the  wood,  the  little  pines 
were  so  thick  and  promising.  He  concluded  not  to  cut 
his  own  fingers  any  more,  t.  e.  not  further  than  up  to 
the  last  joint,  and  hence  this  second  row  of  little  pines. 
They  would  have  covered  the  half  or  perhaps  the  whole 
of  his  barren  field  before  this  if  he  had  let  them. 

I  examined  these  pine  lots.  The  strip  of  little  pines 
contained  also  a  little  white  birch,  much  sweet-fern,  and 
thin  open  sod,  but  scarcely  one  oak,  and  that  very  small. 
The  strip  of  large  pines  contained  countless  oaks  of 
various  kinds,  —  white,  red,  black,  and  shrub  oak,  — 
which  had  come  from  the  young  oak  lot,  many  little 
pines  of  both  kinds,  and  little  wild  cherry,  —  white  [sic\ 
—  and  some  hazel  and  high  blueberry.  (It  was  rather 
elevated  as  well  as  dry  soil.) 

I  dug  up  some  of  the  little  oaks  to  see  how  old  they 
were  and  how  they  had  fared.  The  largest  in  the  lot 
were  about  one  foot  high.  First,  a  red  or  scarlet  oak, 
apparently  four  years  old.  The  acorn  was  about  one 
inch  below  the  surface  of  the  pine  leaves.  It  rose  five 
inches  above  the  leaves,  and  the  root  extended  about 
one  foot  below  the  surface.    It  had  died  down  once. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE  GROWTH  OF  YOUNG  OAKS     129 

The  second  was  a  black  oak  which  rose  six  inches 
above  the  leaves  (or  eight,  measured  along  the  stem). 
It  was  apparently  four  years  old.  It  was  much  branched, 
and  its  tops  had  teen  cut  off  by  rabbits  last  year.  The 
root  ran  straight  down  about  one  inch,  then  nearly 
horizontally  five  or  six  inches,  and  when  I  pulled  it  up 
it  broke  off  where  less  than  one  eighth  inch  thick,  at  six- 
teen inches  below  the  surface.  This  tree  was  one  fourth 
of  an  inch  in  diameter  at  the  surface  and  nearly  three 
fourths  of  an  inch  in  diameter  at  five  inches  below 
(along  the  root).  At  the  same  height  above  the  surface 
it  was  hardly  one  fifth  of  an  inch  in  diameter. 

The  third  was  a  white  oak  ten  inches  high,  appar- 
ently seven  years  old.  It  also  had  been  browsed  by  a 
rabbit  and  put  out  a  new  shoot  accordingly.  Two  years' 
growth  was  buried  in  the  leaves.  The  root  was  very 
similar,  both  in  direction  and  form,  to  the  last,  only  not 
quite  so  thick. 

Fourth,  a  shrub  oak  also  quite  similar,  though  less 
thick  still  and  with  two  or  more  shoots  from  one  stock. 

In  all  these  cases,  or  especially  the  first  three  [  ?  ],  there 
was  one  main,  and  an  unexpectedly  great,  fusiform  root, 
altogether  out  of  proportion  to  the  top,  you  would  say, 
tapering  both  ways,  but  of  course  largest  and  sharpest 
downward,  with  many  fine  stringy,  fibres  extending  on 
every  side  from  it  perhaps  a  foot.  Just  as  a  biennial 
plant  devotes  its  energies  the  first  year  to  producing  a 
stock  on  which  it  can  feed  the  next,  so  these  little  oaks 
in  theit  earliest  years  are  forming  great  fusiform  vigor- 
ous roots  on  which  they  can  draw  when  they  are  sud- 
denly left  to  seek  their  fortunes  in  a  sprout-land. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


130  JOURNAL  [Oct.  16 

Thus  this  double  forest  was  advancing  to  conquer 
new  (or  old)  land,  sending  forward  their  children  on 
the  wings  of  the  wind,  while  already  the  oak  seedlings 
from  the  oak  wood  behind  had  established  themselves 
beneath  the  old  pines  ready  to  supplant  them.  The 
pines  were  the  vanguard.  They  stood  up  to  fire  with 
their  children  before  them,  while  the  little  oaks  kneeled 
behind  and  between  them.  The  pine  is  the  pioneer,  the 
oak  the  more  permanent  settler  who  lays  out  his  im- 
provements. Pines  are  by  some  considered  lower  in  the 
scale  of  trees — in  the  order  of  development  —  than  oaks. 

While  the  pines  were  blowing  into  the  pasture  from 
this  narrow  edging,  the  animals' were  planting  the  acorns 
under  the  pines.  Even  the  small  pine  woods  are  thus 
perfectly  equipped. 

There  was  even  under  these  dark,  dense  pines,  thirty 
years  old,  a  pretty  thick  bed  of  blueberry  and  huckle- 
berry bushes  next  the  wall,  ten  feet  wide,  the  relics  of  a 
still  denser  and  higher  one  that  grew  there  when  it  was 
an  open  field.  The  former  had  thus  been  driven  back 
three  times,  first  by  the  blueberry  hedge,  then  by  the 
pines  of  thirty  years  ago,  and  lastly  by  the  young  pines 
that  sprang  from  them.  Thus  a  wood-lot  had  been 
forced  upon  him,  and  yet  perhaps  he  will  talk  of  it  as  a 
creation  of  his  own. 

I  have  come  up  here  this  afternoon  to  see 's  dense 

white  pine  lot  beyond  the  pond,  that  was  cut  off  last 
winter,  to  know  how  the  little  oaks  look  in  it.  To  my 
surprise  and  chagrin,  I  find  that  the  fellow  who  calls 
himself  its  owner  has  burned  it  all  over  and  sowed 
winter-rye  here.   He,  no  doubt,  means  to  let  it  grow  up 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  POOR   HUSBANDMAN  .    131 

again  in  a  year  or  two,  but  he  thought  it  would  be  clear 
gain  if  he  could  extract  a  little  rye  from  it  in  the  mean- 
while. What  a  fool!  Here  nature  had  got  everything 
ready  for  this  emergency,  and  kept  them  ready  for  many 
years,  —  oaks  half  a  dozen  years  old  or  more,  with  fusi- 
form roots  full  charged  and  tops  already  pointing  sky- 
ward, only  waiting  to  be  touched  off  by  the  sun,  —  and 
he  thought  he  knew  better,  and  would  get  a  little  rye  out 
of  it  first,  which  he  could  feel  at  once  between  his  fingers, 
and  so  he  burned  it,  and  dragged  his  harrow  over  it. 
As  if  oaks  would  bide  his  time  or  come  at  his  bidding. 
Or  as  if  he  preferred  to  have  a  pine  or  a  birch  wood  here 
possibly  half  a  century  hence  —  for  the  land  is  "  pine 
sick  "  —  rather  than  an  oak  wood  at  once.  So  he  trifles 
with  nature.  I  am  chagrined  for  him.  That  he  should 
call  himself  an  agriculturalist!  He  needs  to  have  a 
guardian  placed  over  him.  A  forest-warden  should  be 
appointed  by  the  town.  Overseers  of  poor  husband- 
men. 

Tie  has  got  his  dollars  for  the  pine  timber,  and  now 
he  wishes  to  get  his  bushels  of  grain  and  finger  the  dol- 
lars that  they  will  bring;  and  then.  Nature,  you  may 
have  your  way  again.  Let  us  purchase  a  mass  for  his 
soul.    A  greediness  that  defeats  its  own  ends. 

I  examined  a  1  jttle  lot  of  his  about  a  dozen  rods  square 
just  this  side,  cut  off  last  winter,  apparently  two  thirds 
white  pine  and  one  third  white  oak.  Last  year  the  white 
pine  seed  was  very  abundant,  but  there  was  little  or  no 
white  oak  seed.  Accordingly  I  noticed  twenty  or  more 
seedling  white  pines  of  this  year  on  the  barest  spots,  but 
not  a  single  seedling  oak.   This  suggests  how  much  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


132  .  JOURNAL  [Oct.  16 

species  of  the  succeeding  forest  may  depend  on  whether 
the  trees  were  fertile  the  year  before  they  were  cut,  or  not. 

I  see  a  very  large  white  oak  acom  which  has  a  double 
meat  with  a  skin  between.  There  is  a  very  young  grub 
in  it. 

They  appear  to  be  last  year's  hemlock  and  larch  cones 
that  still  hold  on  in  great  numbers! 

As  time  elapses,  and  the  resources  from  which  our 
forests  have  been  supplied  fail,  we  shall  of  necessity  be 
more  and  more  convinced  of  the  significance  of  the  seed. 

I  see  in  a  thick  pitch  pine  wood  half  a  dozen  stout 
pine  twigs  five  eighths  of  an  inch  thick  that  have  been 
gnawed  oflf  with  their  plumes.    Why? 

Hear  the  alder  locust  still.  Robins  apparently  more 
numerous  than  a  month  ago.  See  grackles  in  corn- 
fields in  two  places  to-day. 

It  chanced  that  here  were  two  proprietors  within  half 
a  mile  who  had  done  exactly  the  same,  i.  c.,  accepted 
part  of  a  wood-lot  that  was  forced  on  them,  and  I  have 
no  doubt  that  there  are  several  more  exactly  similar 
cases  within  that  half-mile  diameter. 

The  history  of  a  wood-lot  is  often,  if  not  conmionly, 
here^  a  history  of  cross-purposes,  —  of  steady  and  con- 
sistent endeavor  on  the  part  of  Nature,  of  interference 
and  blundering  with  a  glimmering  of  intelligence  at  the 
eleventh  hour  on  the  part  of  the  proprietor.  The  pro- 
prietor of  wood-lots  commonly  treats  Nature  as  an 
Irislmian  drives  a  horse,  —  by  standing  before  him  and 
beating  him  in  the  face  all  the  way  across  a  field. 

If  I  find  any  starved  pasture  in  the  midst  of  our 
woods,  —  and  I  remember  many  such,  and  they  are 


Digitized  byCjOOQlC 


1860]  STARVED   PASTURES  133 

the  least  valuable  tracts  we  have,  —  I  know  that  it  has 
commonly  had  such  a  history  as  this  wood-lot  (above). 
It  was  burned  over  when  cut,  and  perhaps  cultivated  a 
year  or  two,  often  because  the  owner  thought  it  was  what 
the  soil  needed  in  order  that  it  might  produce  trees.  In 
some  cases  there  may  be  sense  in  such  a  course  if  he  can 
afford  to  wait  a  century  instead  of  a  third  of  that  time 
for  a  crop.  It  depends  on  what  the  trees  are,  the  local- 
ity, etc.  But  commonly  the  owner  who  adopts  this  course 
makes  a  move  in  the  dark  and  in  ninety-nine  cases  in 
a  hundred  [an  indecipherable  word]  his  own  fingers. 

The  time  will  soon  come,  if  it  has  not  already,  when 
we  shall  have  to  take  special  pains  to  secure  and  encour- 
age the  growth  of  white  oaks,  as  we  already  must  that 
of  chestnuts  for  the  most  part.  These  oaks  will  become 
so  scattered  that  there  will  be  not  seed  enough  to  seed 
the  ground  rapidly  and  completely. 

Horace  Mann  tells  me  that  he  found  in  the  crop  or 
inside  of  the  stake-driver  killed  the  other  day  one  grass- 
hopper, several  thousand-legs  one  to  one  and  a  half 
inches  long,  and  not  much  else. 

It  commonly  happens  in  settled  countries  like  this 
that  the  new  community  of  pines,  sprung  from  seeds 
blown  off  from  an  older  one,  is  very  youthful  compared 
with  the  trees  it  sprang  from  because  many  successive 
crops  of  trees  or  seeds  have  been  plowed  up  or  cut  before 
the  owner  allowed  Nature  to  take  her  course.  Naturally 
the  pines  spread  more  steadily  and  with  no  such  abrupt 
descents.  In  the  wildwood  at  least  there  are  commonly 
only  fires  and  insects  or  blight,  and  not  the  axe  and  plow 
and  the  cattle,  to  interrupt  the  regular  progress  of  things. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


134  JOURNAL  [Oct.  17 

Oct.  17.    P.  M.  —  To  Walden  Woods. 
The  trees  which  vrith  us  grow  in  masses,  i.  e,  not 
merely  scattering,  are :  — 

1,  2.  White  and  pitch  pine 
8.  Oaks 

4.  White  birch 

5.  Red  maple 

6.  Chestnut 

7.  Hickory 
Alder 

Hemlock,  spruce,  and  larch 

Cedar  (white  and  red) 

Willow 

Locust 

Apple 

Red  cherry  (in  neighboring  towns)  W.  [«c] 

Sugar  maple  (rare) 

Of  these  only  white  and  pitch  pine,  oaks,  white  birch, 
and  red  maple  are  now  both  important  and  abundant. 
(Chestnut  and  hickory  have  become  rare.) 

It  is  an  interesting  inquiry  what  determines  which 
species  of  these  shall  grow  on  a  given  tract.  It  is  evident 
that  the  soil  determines  this  to  some  extent,  as  of  the 
oaks  only  the  swamp  white  stands  in  our  meadows,  and, 
so  far  as  these  seven  trees  are  concerned,  swamps  will 
be  composed  only  of  red  maples,  swamp  white  oaks, 
white  birch,  and  white  pine.  By  removing  to  upland  we 
get  rid  of  the  swamp  white  oak  and  red  maples  in 
masses^  and  are  reduced  to  white  and  pitch  pine,  oaks, 
and  white  birch  only,  i.  e.  of  those  that  are  abundant 
and  important. 

Secondly,  ownership,  and  a  corresponding  difference 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE  SUCCESSION  OF  TREES         185 

of  treatment  of  the  land  as  to  time  of  cutting,  etc., 
decides  the  species. 

Third,  age,  as,  if  the  trees  are  one  hundred  years  old, 
they  may  be  chestnut,  but  if  sprout-land  are  less  likely 
to  be;  etc.,  etc.,  etc. 

The  noblest  trees  and  those  which  it  took  the  longest 
to  produce,  and  which  are  the  longest-lived,  as  chest- 
nuts, hickories  ( ?  ),  oaks,  are  the  first  to  become  extinct 
under  our  present  system  and  the  hardest  to  reproduce, 
and  their  place  is  taken  by  pines  and  birches,  of  feebler 
growth  than  the  primitive  pines  and  birches,  for  want  of 
a  change  of  soil. 

There  is  many  a  tract  now  bearing  a  poor  and  decay- 
ing crop  of  birches,  or  perhaps  of  oaks,  dying  when  a 
quarter  grown  and  covered  with  fungi  and  excrescences, 
where  two  hundred  years  ago  grew  oaks  or  chestnuts  of 
the  largest  size. 

I  look  through  a  lot  of  young  oaks  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  years  old  (Warren's,  east  of  the  Deep  Cut,  exclu- 
sively oak,  the  eastern  part).  There  are  plenty  of  little 
oaks  from  a  few  inches  to  a  foot  in  height,  but  on  exam- 
ination I  find  fewer  seedlings  in  proportion  to  the  whole 
(i.  e.  manifestly  seedlings)  and  they  have  much  older 
and  larger  and  poorer  or  more  decayed  roots  than  the 
oaks  in  dense  pine  woods.  Oftenest  they  are  shoots 
from  the  end  of  a  horizontal  twig  running  several  feet 
under  the  leaves  and  leading  to  an  old  stump  [  ?]  under 
the  surface.   But  I  must  examine  again  and  further. 

Looking  through  this  wood  and  seeking  very  care- 
fully for  oak  seedlings  and  anything  else  of  the  kind,  I 
am  surprised  to  see  where  the  wood  was  chiefly  oak  a 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


136  JOURNAL  [Ocfr.  17 

cluster  of  little  chestnuts  six  inches  high  and  close  to- 
gether. Working  my  hand  underneath,  I  easily  lift  them 
up  with  all  their  roots,  —  four  little  chestnuts  two  years 
old,  which  partially  died  down  the  first  year,  —  and  to 
my  surprise  I  find  still  attached  four  great  chestnuts 
from  which  they  sprang  and  four  acorns  which  have 
also  sent  up  puny  little  trees  beneath  the  chestnuts. 
These  eight  nuts  all  lay  within  a  diameter  of  two  inches 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  beneath  the  present  leafy 
surface,  in  a  very  loose  soil  of  but  [?]  half  decayed 
leaves  in  the  midst  of  this  young  oak  wood.  If  I  had  not 
been  looking  for  something  of  the  kind,  I  should  never 
have  seen  either  the  oaks  or  the  chestnuts.  Such  is  the 
difference  between  looking  for  a  thing  and  waiting  for  it 
to  attract  your  attention.  In  the  last  case  you  will 
probably  never  see  it  [at]  all.  They  were  evidently 
planted  there  two  or  three  years  ago  by  a  squirrel  or 
mouse.  I  was  surprised  at  the  sight  of  these  chestnuts, 
for  there  are  not  to  my  knowledge  any  chestnut  trees  — 
none,  at  least,  nearly  large  enough  to  bear  nuts — within 
about  half  a  mile  of  that  spot,  and  I  should  about  as  soon 
have  expected  to  find  chestnuts  in  the  artificial  pine  grove 
in  my  yard.  The  chestnut  trees  old  enough  to  bear  fruit 
are  near  the  Lincoln  line  about  half  a  mile  east  of  this 
through  the  woods  and  over  hill  and  dale.  No  one  ac- 
quainted with  these  woods  —  not  the  proprietor  — would 
have  believed  that  a  chestnut  lay  under  the  leaves  in 
that  wood  or  within  a  quarter  of  a  mile  of  it,  and  yet 
from  what  I  saw  then  and  afterward  I  have  no  doubt 
that  there  were  hundreds,  which  were  placed  there  by 
quadrupeds  and  birds.    This  wood  lies  on  the  south  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  CHESTNUT  WOODS  137 

the  village,  separated  from  it  by  a  mile  of  open  fields  and 
meadows.  It  is  the  northern  part  of  an  extensive  pine 
and  oak  forest  which  half  a  mile  eastward,  near  the 
Lincoln  line,  begins  to  contain  a  few  chestnuts.  These 
little  chestnuts  were  growing  well,  but  the  oaks  appeared 
to  be  dead  and  dying.  ^ 

It  is  well  known  that  the  chestnut  timber  of  this 
vicinity  has  rapidly  disappeared  within  fifteen  years, 
having  been  used  for  railroad  sleepers,  for  rails,  and  for 
planks,  so  that  there  is  danger  that  this  part  of  our 
forest  will  become  extinct. 

The  last  chestnut  tracts  of  any  size  were  on  the  side 
of  liincoln.  As  I  advanced  further  through  the  woods 
toward  Lincoln,  I  was  surprised  to  see  how  many  little 
chestnuts  there  were,  mostly  two  or  three  years  old  and 
some  even  ten  feet  high,  scattered  through  them  and 
also  under  the  dense  pines,  as  oaks  are.  I  should  say 
there  was  one  every  half-dozen  rods,  made  more  distinct 
by  their  yellow  leaves  on  the  brown  ground,  which  sur- 
prised me  because  I  had  not  attended  to  the  spread  of 
the  chestnut,  and  it  is  certain  that  every  one  of  these 
came  from  a  chestnut  placed  -there  by  a  quadruped  or 
bird  which  had  brought  it  from  further  east,  where 
alone  it  grew. 

You  would  say  that  the  squirrels,  etc.,  went  further 
for  chestnuts  than  for  acorns  in  proportion  as  they  were 
a  greater  rarity.  I  suspect  that  a  squirrel  may  convey 
them  sometimes  a  quarter  or  a  half  a  mile  even,  and  no 
doubt  as  soon  as  a  young  chestnut  fifteen  or  twenty  feet 

*  I  dug  up  three  or  four  more  a  few  days  after,  and  found  that  they 
had  not  the  very  large  roots  that  young  oaks  have. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


138  JOURNAL  [Oct.  17 

high,  far  advanced  beyond  the  chestnut  woods,  bears 
a  single  bur,  which  no  man  discovers,  a  squirrel  or  bird 
is  almost  sure  to  gather  it  and  plant  it  in  that  neighbor- 
hood or  still  further  forward.  A  squirrel  goes  a-chest- 
nutting  perhaps  as  far  as  the  boys  do,  and  when  he  gets 
there  he  does  not  have  to  shake  or  club  the  tree  or  wait 
for  frost  to  open  the  burs ;  he  walks  [  ?  ]  up  to  the  bur  and 
cuts  it  off,  and  strews  the  ground  with  them  before  they 
have  opened.  And  the  fewer  they  are  in  the  wood  the 
more  certain  it  is  that  he  will  appropriate  every  one, 
for  it  is  no  transient  afternoon's  picnic  with  him,  but 
the  pursuit  of  his  life,  a  harvest  that  he  gets  as  surely 
as  the  farmer  his  com. 

Now  it  is  important  that  the  owners  of  these  wood-lots 
should  know  what  is  going  on  here  and  treat  them  and 
the  squirrels  accordingly.  They  little  dream  of  what  the 
squirrels  are  about;  know  only  that  they  get  their  seed- 
corn  in  the  adjacent  fields,  and  encourage  their  boys  to 
shoot  them  every  day,  supplying  them  with  powder  and 
shot  for  this  purpose.  In  newer  parts  of  the  country 
they  have  squirrel-hunts  on  a  large  scale  and  kill  many 
thousands  in  a  few  hours,  and  all  the  neighborhood  re- 
joices. 

Thus  it  appears  that  by  a  judicious  letting  Nature 
alone  merely  we  might  recover  our  chestnut  wood  in  the 
course  of  a  century. 

This  also  suggests  that  you  cannot  raise  one  kind  of 
wood  alone  in  a  country  unless  you  are  willing  to  plant 
it  yourself.  If  no  oaks  grow  within  miles  of  your  pines, 
the  ground  under  the  pines  will  not  be  filled  with  little 
oaks,  and  you  will  have  to  plant  them*    Better  have 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]         A  YOUNG   OAK  SEEDLING  139 

your  wood  of  different  kinds  in  narrow  lots  of  fifty  acres, 
and  not  one  kind  covering  a  township. 

I  took  up  a  red  oak  seedling  of  this  year  five  inches 
high.  In  this  case  the  top  is  larger,  putting  length  and 
breadth  together,  than  the  root,  and  the  great  acom  is 
still  perfectly  sound,  lying  on  its  side,  and  the  plant  this 
first  year  evidently  derives  a  great  part  of  its  nourish- 
ment from  it.  The  root  is  abruptly  curved  back  under 
the  acom,  and  I  find  that  seedling  or  young  oaks  gener- 
ally have  roots  which  slant  off  more  or  less  horizontally 
from  where  the  acom  lay  two  to  five  or  six  inches,  and 
then,  having  acquired  their  greatest  thickness,  descend 
straight  downward.  To  this  irregularity  is  sometimes 
adde^  a  half-tum  or  spiral  in  the  upper  part  of  the  root: 
j..-.^       or,  looking  down  on  it:    • 

T%lr-*       The   acom    is    still    so  I 
"^  sound  that   I    think   it   ^^i^^ 
W  must  continue  to  furnish  ' 

I  nourishment  to  the  plant  a  part  of 
^^^  I   next  year. 

Apparently  the  pine  woods  are  a  natural  nursery  of 
oaks,  from  whence  we  might  easily  transplant  them  to 
our  grounds,  and  thus  save  some  of  those  which  annu- 
ally decay,  while  we  let  the  pines  stand.  Experience  has 
proved,  at  any  rate,  that  these  oaks  will  bear  exposure 
to  the  light.  It  is  remarkable  that  for  the  most  part 
there  are  no  seedling  oaks  in  the  open  grassy  fields  and 
pastures.  The  acorns  are  little  likely  to  succeed  if 
dropped  there.  Those  springing  up  in  such  places 
appear  to  have  been  dropped  or  buried  by  animals 
when  on  their  way  with  them  to  another  covert. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


140  JOURNAL  [Oct.  17 

I  examine  under  the  pitch  pines  by  Thrush  Alley  to 
see  how  long  the  oaks  live  under  dense  pines.  The  oldest 
oaks  there  are  about  eight  or  ten  years  old.  I  see  none 
older  under  these  and  other  dense  pines,  even  when  the 
pines  are  thirty  or  more  years  old,  though  I  have  no 
doubt  that  oaks  began  to  grow  there  more  than  twenty 
years  ago.  Hence  they  must  have  died,  and  I  suppose 
I  could  find  their  great  roots  in  the  soil  if  I  should  dig 
for  them.  I  should  say  that  they  survived  under  a  very 
dense  pine  wood  only  from  six  to  ten  years.  This  cor- 
responds exactly  with  the  experience  of  the  English 
planters,  who  begin  to  shred  the  branches  of  the  nursing 
pines  when  the  oaks  are  six  or  seven  years  old  and  to 
remove  the  pines  altogether  when  the  oaks  are  eight  to 
ten  years  old. 

But  in  openings  amid  the  pines,  though  only  a  rod 
in  diameter,  or  where  the  pines  are  thin,  and  also  on 
their  edges,  the  oaks  shoot  up  higher  and  become  trees, 
and  this  shows  how  mixed  woods  of  pine  and  oak  are 
produced.  If  the  pines  are  quite  small  or  grow  but  thinly, 
fewer  acorns  will  be  planted  amid  them,  it  is  true,  but 
more  will  come  to  trees,  and  so  you  have  a  mixed 
wood.  Or  when  you  thin  out  a  pine  wood,  the  oaks 
spring  up  here  and  there;  or  when  you  thin  an  oak 
wood,  the  pines  plant  themselves  and  grow  up  in  like 
manner. 

It  is  surprising  how  many  accidents  these  seedling 
oaks  will  survive.  We  have  seen  [  ?]  that  they  commonly 
survive  six  to  ten  years  under  the  thickest  pines  and 
acquire  stout  and  succulent  roots.  Not  only  they  bear 
the  sudden  exposure  to  the  light  when  the  pines  are  cut. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE  SECOND   GROWTH  141 

but,  in  case  of  a  more  natural  succession,  when  a  fire 
runs  over  the  lot  and  kills  pines  and  birches  and  maples, 
and  oaks  twenty  feet  high,  these  little  oaks  are  scarcely 
injured  at  all,  and  they  will  still  be  just  as  high  the 
next  year,  if  not  in  the  fall  of  the  same  year  if  the  fire 
happens  early  in  the  spring.  Or  if  in  the  natural  course 
of  events  a  fire  does  not  occur  nor  a  hurricane,  the  soil 
may  at  last  be  exhausted  for  pines,  but  there  are  always 
the  oaks  ready  to  take  advantage  of  the  least  feebleness 
and  yielding  of  the  pines. 

Hereabouts  a  pine  wood,  or  even  a  birch  wood,  is  no 
sooner  established  than  the  squirrels  and  birds  begin  to 
plant  acorns  in  it.  First  the  pines,  then  the  oaks;  and 
coniferous  trees,  geologists  tell  us,  are  older,  as  they 
are  lower  in  the  order  of  development,  —  were  created 
before  oaks. 

I  observe  to-day  a  great  many  pitch  pine  plumes  cut 
oflF  by  squirrels  and  strewn  under  the  trees,  as  I  did 
yesterday.^ 

I  count  the  rings  of  a  great  white  pine  sawed  off  in 
Laurel  Glen  a  few  years  ago,  — ^about  one  hundred  and 
thirty.  This,  probably,  was  really  of  the  second  growth, 
at  least,  but  probably  now  even  the  second  growth  is  all 
gone  in  this  town.  We  may  presume  that  any  forest  tree 
here  a  hundred  and  thirty  years  old  belongs  to  the 
second  growth,  at  least.  We  may  say  that  all  pines  and 
oaks  of  this  age  or  growth  are  now  extinct  in  this  town, 

'  The  next  day  (18th)  I  see  twenty  pine  twigs,  some  three-plumed. 
At  Beck  Stow*s,  recently  gnawed  off  and  lying  under  one  tree.  This 
is  to  be  seen  now  on  all  sides  of  the  town.  Why  so  ?  Saw  the  same 
last  fall  and  before. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


142  JOURNAL  [Oct.  17 

and  the  present  generation  are  not  acquainted  with 
large  trees  of  these  species. 

A  month  ago  I  saw  the  smoke  of  many  burnings  in 
the  horizon  (even  now  see  one  occasionally),  and  now  in 
my  walks  I  occasionally  come  to  a  field  of  winter-rye 
already  greening  the  ground  in  the  woods  where  such  a 
fire  was  then  kindled. 

K  any  one  presumes  that,  after  all,  there  cannot  be 
so  many  nuts  planted  as  we  see  oaks  spring  up  at  once 
when  the  pines  are  cut,  he  must  consider  that  according 
to  the  above  calculation  (two  pages  back)  there  are  some 
ten  years  for  the  animals  to  plant  the  oak  wood  in ;  so 
that,  if  the  tract  is  ten  rods  square  or  contains  one  hun- 
dred square  rods,  it  would  only  be  necessary  that  they 
should  plant  ten  acorns  in  a  year  which  should  not  be 
disturbed,  in  order  that  there  might  be  one  oak  to  every 
square  rod  at  the  end  of  ten  years.  ^  This,  or  anything 
like  this,  does  not  imply  any  very  great  activity  among 
the  squirrels.  A  striped  squirrel  could  carry  enough  in 
his  cheeks  at  one  trip. 

While  the  man  that  killed  my  lynx  (and  many  others) 
thinks  it  came  out  of  a  menagerie,  and  the  naturalists 
call  it  the  Canada  lynx,  and  at  the  White  Mountains 
th^  call  it  the  Siberian  lynx, — in  each  case  forgetting,  or 
ignoring,  that  it  belongs  here, — I  call  it  the  Concord  lynx. 

Oct.  18.   P.  M.  —  To  Merriam's  white  pine  grove. 
I  often  see  amid  or  beside  a  pitch  or  white  pine  grove, 
though  thirty  years  old,  a  few  yet  larger  and  older  trees, 

^  But  some  English  planters  plant  only  an  acorn  to  two  or  three 
rods,  others  four  or  five  times  as  many. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  DECAYED  ACORNS  143 

from  which  they  came»  rising  above  them,  like  patri- 
archs surrounded  by  their  children. 

Eariy  cinquefoil  again. 

I  find  fair-looking  white  oak  acorns,  which  abound 
on  the  trees  near  Beck  Stow's,  to  be  decayed  on  the  tree. 
Wishing  to  see  what  proportion  were  decayed  I  pull 
down  a  bough,  and  pluck  forty-one  acoms,  which  I  cut 
open  successively  with  my  knife.  Every  one  is  soft  and 
spoiled,  turned  black  or  dark-brown  within,  though 
there  is  not  a  single  worm  in  them.  Indeed,  abundant 
and  beautiful  as  the  crop  is,  they  are  all  decayed  on 
that  and  the  neighboring  trees,  and  I  only  find  one  sound 
one  after  long  search.  This  is  probably  the  reason  why 
they  hold  on  still  so  numerously,  and  beside  the  squir- 
rels do  not  disturb  them.  I  suspect  that  they  were  killed 
by  the  severe  frost  of  about  October  1st.  Abundant  as 
the  crop  is,  perhaps  half  of  them  have  already  been 
destroyed  thus.  Those  that  were  touched  first  and  most 
severely  are  paler-brown  on  one  or  both  sides.  Here,  or 
on  these  trees,  is  a  whole  crop  destroyed  before  it  fell, 
though  remarkably  abundant.  How  many  thousand 
busheb  there  must  be  in  this  state  in  this  town ! 

See  how  an  acorn  is  planted  by  a  squirrel,  just  under 
a  loose  covering  of  moist  leaves  where  it  is  shaded  and 
concealed,  and  lies  on  its  side  on  the  soil,  ready  to  send 
down  its  radicle  next  year. 

K  there  are  not  so  many  oak  seedlings  in  a  deciduous 
wood  as  in  a  pine  one,  it  may  be  because  both  oaks  (and 
acoms)  and  squirrels  love  warmth.  The  ground  does 
not  freeze  nearly  so  hard  under  dense  pines  as  in  a 
deciduous  wood. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


144  JOURNAL  [Oct.  18 

Look  through  an  oak  wood,  say  twenty-five  or  thirty 
years  old,  north  of  the  Sherman  grove  on  the  road.  It 
appeared  to  me  that  there  were  fewer  seedling  oaks 
under  this  than  under  pines,  and  the  roots  of  the  other 
little  ones  that  looked  like  seedlings  were  old  and  decay- 
ing, and  the  shoots  slender,  feeble,  and  more  or  less 
prostrate  under  the  leaves.  You  will  find  seedling  oaks 
imder  oaks,  it  is  true,  but  I  think  that  you  will  not  find 
a  great  many  of  them.  You  will  not  find,  as  under  pines, 
a  great  many  of  these  little  oaks  one  to  eight  or  ten  years 
old,  with  great  fat,  or  fusiform,  roots,  all  ready  to  spring 
up  when  the  pines  are  cut. 

If  it  were  true  that  the  little  oaks  under  oaks  steadily 
grew  and  came  to  trees  there,  then  even  that  would  be  a 
reason  why  the  soil  would  not  be  so  well  stocked  with 
ihem  when  the  wood  was  cut  as  when  a  pine  wood  is 
cut,  for  there  would  be  only  ten  trees  in  the  first  case  to 
one  hundred  in  the  last  (according  to  our  calculation 
before). 

Most  of  the  little  oaks  here  were  little  or  dwarfed, 
apparently  because  they  were  shoots  from  poor  and 
diseased  rootstocks,  which  were  common  in  the  ground. 

But  I  think  that  neither  pines  nor  oaks  do  well  under 
older  trees. 

Methinks  you  do  not  see  numerous  oaks  of  all  ages 
and  sizes  in  an  old  oak  wood,  but  commonly  large  trees 
of  about  the  same  age  and  little  ones  like  huckleberry 
bushes  under  your  feet;  and  so  commonly  with  pine 
woods.  In  either  case,  if  the  woods  are  well  grown  and 
dense,  all  the  trees  in  them  appear  to  have  been  planted 
at  the  same  time. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   BEST   OAK  WOODS  145 

For  aught  that  I  know,  I  would  much  rather  have  a 
young  oak  wood  which  has  succeeded  to  pines  than  one 
that  has  succeeded  to  oaks,  for  they  will  make  better 
trees,  not  only  because  the  soil  is  new  to  them,  but 
because  they  are  all  seedlings,  while  in  the  other  case  far 
the  greater  part  are  sprouts ;  just  as  I  would  prefer  apple 
trees  five  or  six  years  from  the  seed  for  my  orchard  to 
suckers  from  those  which  have  come  to  maturity  or 
decayed.  Otherwise  your  young  oaks  will  soon,  when 
half  grown,  have  the  diseases  of  old  trees,  —  warts  and 
decay. 

I  find  that  Merriam's  white  pine  grove  is  on  the  site 
of  an  oak  wood,  the  old  oak  stumps  being  still  very 
common.  The  pines  appear  to  be  some  forty  years  old. 
The  soil  of  pine  leaves  is  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half 
thick.  The  oldest  little  oaks  here  are  five  years  old  and 
six  inches  high. 

Am  surprised  to  see  that  the  pasture  west  of  this, 
where  the  little  pitch  pines  were  cut  down  last  year,  is 
now  even  more  generally  green  with  pines  than  two 
years  ago. 

What  shall  we  say  to  that  management  that  halts 
between  two  courses,  —  does  neither  this  nor  that,  but 
botches  both  ?  I  see  many  a  pasture  on  which  the  pitch 
or  white  pines  are  spreading,  where  the  bush-whack  is 
from  time  to  time  used  with  a  show  of  vigor,  and  I 
despair  of  my  trees,  —  I  say  mine,  for  the  farmer 
evidently  does  not  mean  they  shall  be  his,  —  and  yet 
this  questionable  work  is  so  poorly  done  that  those 
very  fields  grow  steadily  greener  and  more  forest-like 
from  year  to  year  in  spite  of  cows  and  bush-whack,  till 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


146  JOURNAL  [Oct.  18 

at  length  the  farmer  gives  up  the  contest  from  sheer 
weariness,  and  finds  himself  the  owner  of  a  wood-lot. 
Now  whether  wood-lots  or  pastures  are  most  profitable 
for  him  I  will  not  undertake  to  say,  but  I  am  certain 
that  a  wood-lot  and  pasture  combined  is  not  profitable. 

I  see  spatter-dock  pads  and  pontederia  in  that  little 
pool  at  south  end  of  Beck  Stow's.  How  did  they  get 
there  ?  There  is  no  stream  in  this  case  ?  It  was  perhaps 
rather  reptiles  and  birds  than  fishes,  then.  Indeed  we 
might  as  well  ask  how  they  got  anywhere,  for  all  the 
pools  and  fields  have  been  stocked  thus,  and  we  are 
not  to  suppose  as  many  new  creations  as  pools.  This 
suggests  to  inquire  how  any  plant  came  where  it  is,  — 
how,  for  instance,  the  poob  which  were  stocked  with 
lilies  before  we  were  bom  or  this  town  was  settled,  and 
ages  ago,  were  so  stocked,  as  well  as  those  which  we 
dug.  I  think  that  we  are  warranted  only  in  supposing 
that  the  former  was  stocked  in  the  same  way  as  the 
latter,  and  that  there  was  not  a  sudden  new  creation,  — 
at  least  since  the  first;  yet  I  have  no  doubt  that  peculiar- 
ities more  or  less  considerable  have  thus  been  gradually 
produced  in  the  lilies  thus  planted  in  various  poob, 
in  consequence  of  their  various  conditions,  though  they 
all  came  originally  from  one  seed. 

We  find  ourselves  in  a  world  that  is  already  planted, 
but  is  also  still  being  planted  as  at  first.  We  say  of  some 
plants  that  they  grow  in  wet  places  and  of  others  that 
they  grow  in  desert  places.  The  truth  is  that  their  seeds 
are  scattered  almost  everywhere,  but  here  only  do  they 
succeed.  Unless  you  can  show  me  the  pool  where  the 
lily  was  created,  I  shall  believe  that  the  oldest  fossil 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE   DEVELOPMENT  THEORY       147 

lilies  which  the  geologist  has  detected  (if  this  is  found 
fossil)  originated  in  that  locality  in  a  similar  manner 
to  these  of  Beck  Stow's.  We  see  thus  how  the  fossil  lilies 
which  the  geologist  has  detected  are  dispersed,  as  well 
as  these  which  we  carry  in  our  hands  to  church. 

The  development  theory  implies  a  greater  vital  force 
in  nature,  because  it  is  more  flexible  and  accommodat- 
ing, and  equivalent  to  a  sort  of  constant  new  creation. 

Mr.  Alcott  tells  me  that  the  red  squirrels  which  live 
in  his  elms  go  off  to  the  woods  (pitch  pines  behind  his 
house)  about  June,  and  return  in  September,  when  the 
butternuts,  etc.,  are  ripe.  Do  they  not  go  off  for  hazel- 
nuts and  pine  seed.^  No  doubt  they  are  to  be  found 
where  their  food  is. 

Young  oaks,  especially  white  oaks,  in  open  woodland 
hollows  and  on  plains  [are]  almost  annually  killed  down 
by  frost,  they  are  so  tender.  Large  tracts  in  this  town 
are  bare  for  this  reason.  Hence  it  is  very  important  that 
tlie  little  oaks,  when  they  are  tenderest,  should  have  the 
shelter  of  pines  and  other  trees  as  long  as  they  can  bear 
it,  or  perhaps  till  they  get  above  the  level  of  the  frosts. 
I  know  of  extensive  open  areas  in  the  woods  where  it 
would  be  of  no  use  to  sow  acorns  or  to  set  seedling  oaks, 
for  every  one  would  be  killed  by  the  frost,  as  they  have 
already  been ;  but  if  you  were  to  plant  pines  thinly  there, 
or  thickly  at  first  and  then  thin  them  out,  you  could 
easily  raise  oaks,  for  often  you  have  only  got  to  protect 
them  till  they  are  five  or  six  feet  high,  that  they  may  be 
out  of  the  way  of  ordinary  frosts,  whose  surface  is  as 
level  as  that  of  a  lake. 

According  to  Loudon  {vide  Emerson  on  oaks),  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


148  JOURNAL  [Oct.  18 

best  authorities  say  plant  some  two  hundred  and  fifty 
acorns  to  an  acre  (i.  e,  some  from  three  hundred  to  five 
hundred,  others  from  sixty  to  one  hundred),  or  about 
one  and  one  half  acorns  to  a  rod,  or  two  hundred  and 
forty  to  an  acre. 

In  my  walk  in  Walden  Woods  yesterday  I  found  that 
the  seedling  oaks  and  chestnuts  were  most  common 
under  the  fullest  and  densest  white  pines,  as  that  of 
Brister  Spring. 

Oct.  19.    P.  M.  —  To  Conantum. 

Indian-summer-Uke  and  gossamer. 

That  white  oak  in  Hubbard  Grove  which  on  the  7th 
was  full  of  those  glossy  black  acorns  is  still  hanging  full, 
to  my  surprise.  Suspecting  the  cause,  I  proceed  to  cut 
them  open,  and  find  that  they  are  all  decayed  or  decay- 
ing. Even  if  not  black  within,  they  are  already  sour  and 
softened.  Yet  Rice  told  me  that  he  collected  from  this 
tree  about  a  week  ago  some  thousands  of  acorns  and 
planted  them  in  Sudbury.  I  can  tell  him  that  probably 
not  more  than  half  a  dozen  of  them  were  alive,  though 
they  may  then  have  looked  well,  as  they  do  now  exter- 
nally. First,  then,  I  was  surprised  at  the  abundance 
of  the  crop  this  year.  Secondly,  by  the  time  I  had  got 
accustomed  to  that  fact  I  was  surprised  at  the  vast  pro- 
portion that  were  killed,  apparently  by  frost.  The 
squirrels  are  wiser  than  to  gather  these,  but  I  see  where 
they  have  gathered  many  black  oak  acorns,  the  ground 
beneath  being  strewn  with  their  cups,  which  have  each  a 
piece  bitten  out  in  order  to  get  out  the  acorn.  I  suspect 
that  black  and  red  oak  acorns  are  not  so  easily  injured 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE  BATTLE  OF  THE   PINES        149 

by  frost.    Indeed,  I  find  this  to  be  the  case  as  far  as  I 
look. 

Sophia  tells  me  that  the  large  swamp  white  oak  acorns 
in  their  cups,  which  she  gathered  a  fortnight  ago,  are  now 
all  mouldy  about  the  cups,  or  base  of  the  acorn. 

It  is  a  remarkable  fact,  and  looks  like  a  glaring  imper- 
fection in  Nature,  that  the  labor  of  the  oaks  for  the  year 
should  be  lost  to  this  extent.  The  softening  or  freezing 
of  cranberries,  the  rotting  of  potatoes,  etc.,  etc.,  seem 
trifling  in  comparison.  The  pigeons,  jays,  squirrels, 
and  woodlands  are  thus  impoverished.  It  is  hard  to  say 
what  great  purpose  is  served  by  this  seeming  waste. 

I  frequently  see  an  old  and  tall  pine  wood  standing 
in  the  midst  of  a  younger  but  more  extensive  oak  wood, 
it  being  merely  a  remnant  of  an  extensive  pine  wood 
which  once  occupied  the  whole  tract,  but,  having  a  dif- 
ferent owner,  or  for  some  other  reason,  it  has  not  been 
cut.  Sometimes,  also,  I  see  these  pines  of  the  same  age 
reappear  at  half  a  mile  distant,  the  intermediate  pines 
having  been  cut  for  thirty  or  forty  years,  and  oaks  having 
taken  their  place.  Or  the  distant  second  growth  of  pines, 
especially  if  they  stand  on  the  land  of  another  than  he 
who  owns  the  oaks,  may,  as  we  have  seen,  be  a  genera- 
tion smaller  and  have  sprung  from  the  pines  that  stood 
where  the  oaks  do.  Two  or  three  pines  will  run  swiftly 
forward  a  quarter  of  a  mile  into  a  plain,  which  is  their 
favorite  field  of  battle,  taking  advantage  of  the  least 
shelter,  as  a  rock,  or  fence,  that  may  be  there,  and  in- 
trench themselves  behind  it,  and  if  you  look  sharp,  you 
may  see  their  plumes  waving  there.  Or,  as  I  have  said, 
they  will  cross  a  broad  river  without  a  bridge,  and  as 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


150  JOURNAL  [Oct.  19 

swiftly  climb  and  permanently  occupy  a  steep  hill 
beyond. 

At  this  season  of  the  year,  when  each  leaf  acquires  its 
peculiar  color,  Nature  prints  this  history  distinctly,  as  it 
were  an  illuminated  edition.  Every  oak  and  hickory 
and  birch  and  aspen  sprinkled  amid  the  pines  tells  its 
tale  a  mile  off,  and  you  have  not  to  go  laboriously 
through  the  wood  examining  the  bark  and  leaves. 
These  facts  would  be  best  illustrated  by  colors,  —  green, 
yellow,  red,  etc. 

Pines  take  the  first  and  longest  strides.  Oaks  march 
deliberately  in  the  rear. 

The  pines  are  the  light  infantry,  voltigeurSy  supplying 
the  scouts  and  skirmishers;  the  oaks  are  the  grenadiers, 
heavy-paced  and  strong,  that  form  the  solid  phalanx. 

It  is  evident  to  any  who  attend  to  the  matter  that 
pines  are  here  the  natural  nurses  of  the  oaks,  and  there- 
fore they  grow  together.  By  the  way,  how  nearly  identi- 
cal is  the  range  of  our  pines  with  the  range  of  our  oaks  ? 
Perhaps  oaks  extend  beyond  them  southward,  where 
there  is  less  danger  of  frost. 

The  new  woodlands,  i,  e,,  forests  that  spring  up  where 
there  were  no  trees  before,  are  pine  (or  birch  or  maple), 
and  accordingly  you  may  see  spaces  of  bare  pasture  sod 
between  the  trees  for  many  years.  But  oaks,  in  masses, 
are  not  seen  springing  up  thus  with  old  sod  between 
them.  They  form  a  sprout-land,  or  stand  amid  the 
stumps  of  a  recent  pine  lot. 

It  will  be  worth  the  while  to  compare  seedling  oaks 
with  sprout-lands,  to  see  which  thrive  best. 

I  see,  on  the  side  of  Fair  Haven  Hill,  pines  which 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  PINES        151 

have  spread,  apparently  from  the  north,  one  hundred 
rods,  and  the  hillside  begins  to  wear  the  appearance  of 
woodland,  though  there  are  many  cows  feeding  amid 
the  pines.  The  custom  with  us  is  to  let  the  pines  spread 
thus  into  the  pasture,  and  at  the  same  time  to  let  the 
cattle  wander  there  and  contend  with  the  former  for  the 
possession  of  the  ground,  from  time  to  time  coming  to 
the  aid  of  the  cattle  with  a  bush-whack.  But  when,  after 
some  fifteen  or  twenty  years,  the  pines  have  fairly  pre- 
vailed over  us  both,  though  they  have  suflFered  terribly 
and  the  ground  is  strewn  with  their  dead,  we  then  sud- 
denly turn  about,  coming  to  the  aid  of  the  pines  with  a 
whip,  and  drive  the  cattle  out.  They  shall  no  longer 
be  allowed  to  scratch  their  heads  on  them,  and  we  fence 
them  in.  This  is  the  actual  history  of  a  great  many  of  our 
wood-lots.  While  the  English  have  taken  great  pains  to 
learn  how  to  create  forests,  this  is  peculiarly  our  mode. 
It  is  plain  that  we  have  thus  both  poor  pastures  and 
poor  forests. 

I  examine  that  oak  lot  of  Rice's  next  to  the  pine  strip 
of  the  16th.  The  oaks  (at  the  southern  end)  are  about 
a  dozen  *  years  old.  As  I  expected,  I  find  the  stumps 
of  the  pines  which  stood  there  before  quite  fresh  and 
distinct,  not  much  decayed,  and  I  find  by  their  rings 
that  they  were  about  forty  years  old  when  cut,  while  the 
pines  which  sprang  from  [them]  are  now  about  twenty- 
five  or  thirty.  But  further,  and  unexpectedly,  I  find  the 
stumps,  in  great  numbers,  now  much  decayed,  of  an  oak 
wood  which  stood  there  more  than  sixty  years  ago.  They 
are  mostly  shells,  the  sap-wood  rotted  off  and  the  inside 
^  Oct.  81,  count  ten  rings  on  one  sprout. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


152  JOURNAL  [Oct.  19 

turned  to  mould.  Thus  I  distinguished  four  successions 
of  trees. 

Thus  I  can  easily  find  in  countless  numbers  in  our 
forests,  frequently  in  the  third  succession,  the  stumps 
of  the  oaks  which  were  cut  near  the  end  of  the  last  cen- 
tury. Perhaps  I  can  recover  thus  generally  the  oak 
woods  of  the  beginning  of  the  last  century,  if  the  land 
has  remained  woodland.  I  have  an  advantage  over  the 
geologist,  for  I  can  not  only  detect  the  order  of  events 
but  the  time  during  which  they  elapsed,  by  counting 
the  rings  on  the  stumps.  Thus  you  can  unroll  the  rotten 
papjrrus  on  which  the  history  of  the  Concord  forest  is 
written. 

It  is  easier  far  to  recover  the  history  of  the  trees  which 
stood  here  a  c*entury  or  more  ago  than  it  is  to  recover  the 
history  of  the  men  who  walked  beneath  them.  How 
much  do  we  know  —  how  little  more  can  we  know  —  of 
these  two  centuries  of  Concord  life  ? 

Go  into  a  young  oak  wood,  and  commonly,  if  the 
oaks  are  not  sprouts,  then  they  were  preceded  by  pines. 

Of  course,  the  gradual  manner  in  which  many  wood- 
lots  are  cut  —  often  only  thinned  out  —  must  aflfect 
the  truth  of  my  statements  in  numerous  instances.  The 
regularity  of  the  succession  will  be  interfered  with,  and 
what  is  true  of  one  end  of  a  lot  will  not  be  true  of  the 
other. 

If  the  ground  chances  to  be  broken  or  burned  over  or 
cleared  the  same  year  that  a  good  crop  of  pine  seed  falls, 
then  expect  pines;  not  otherwise.  \^ 

I  examined  the  huckleberry  bushes  next  the  wall  in 
that  same  dense  pitch  and  white  pine  strip.   I  found 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  HUCKLEBERRY  BUSHES  158 

that  the  oldest  bushes  were  about  two  feet  high  and 
some  eight  or  ten  years  old,  and  digging  with  spade 
and  hands,  I  found  that  their  roots  did  not  go  deep,  but 
that  they  spread  by  a  vigorous  shoot  which  forked 
several  times,  running  just  under  the  leaves  or  in  the 
surface  soil,  so  that  they  could  be  easily  pulled  up.  One 
ran  seven  feet  before  it  broke,  and  was  probably  ten 
feet  or  more  in  length.  And  three  or  four  bushes  stood 
on  this  shoot,  and  though  these  bushes  after  a  few  years 
did  not  grow  more  than  an  inch  in  a  year,  these  subter- 
ranean shoots  had  grown  six  to  twelve  inches  at  the  end, 
and  there  seemed  to  be  all  the  vigor  of  the  plant.  The 
largest  bushes  preserved  still  a  trace  of  their  origin  from 
a  subterranean  shoot,  the  limbs  being  one-sided  and  the 
brash  aslant.  It  is  very  likely,  then,  if  not  certain,  that 
these  roots  are  as  old  as  the  pine  wood  which  over- 
shadows them;  or  it  is  so  long  since  the  seedling  huckle- 
berry came  up  there.  The  pnes  were  thirty  years  old, 
but  some  of  the  separate  huckleberry  bushes  were  ten, 
and  were  sending  up  new  vigorous  shoots  still.  The 
same  was  the  case  with  the  Vaccinium  vacUlans  and  the 
Pennsylvanicum^  the  last  one,  of  course,  on  a  smaller 
scale.  You  could  see  the  F.  vaciUans  growing  in  r5ws 
for  several  feet  above  the  subterranean  shoots,  indicating 
where  it  was.   The  shoot  turns  up  to  make  a  bush  thus: 


r  T  - 


Thus  the  roots  of  huckleberries  may  survive  till  the 
woods  are  cut  again.  They  certainly  will  here.  A  huckle- 
berry bush  is  apparently  in  its  prime  at  five  to  seven 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


154  JOURNAL  [Oct.  19 

years,  and  the  oldest  are  ten  to  twelve  years.  Plants 
of  this  order  {Ericacece)  are  said  to  be  among  the  earlier 
ones  among  fossil  plants,  and  they  are  likely  to  be 
among  the  last. 

The  oldest  oak,  fairly  speaking,  in  this  wood  was  a 
black,  thirteen  years  old.  Its  root,  as  usual,  ran  not 
straight  down  but  with  a  half -turn  or  twist  (as  well  as 
to  one  side),  which  would  make  it  harder  to  pull  up  at 
any  rate. 

The  white  oak  acorn  has  very  Uttle  bitterness  and  is 
quite  agreeable  to  eat.  When  chestnuts  are  away  I  am 
inclined  to  think  them  as  good  as  they.  At  any  rate  it 
braces  my  thought  more,  and  does  me  more  good  to  eat 
them,  than  it  does  to  eat  chestnuts.  I  feel  the  stronger 
even  before  I  have  swallowed  one.  It  gives  me  heart 
and  back  of  oak. 

I  found  that  the  squirrels,  or  possibly  mice,  which 
have  their  holes  about  those  old  oak  stumps  ran  along  in 
various  directions  through  the  roots,  whose  insides  are 
rotted  away,  leaving  a  wall  of  thin  bark  which  prevents 
the  earth  falling  in.  Such  are  their  highways  under- 
ground.   The  holes  above  led  to  them. 

On  the  monuments  of  the  old  settlers  of  this  town,  if 
they  can  be  found,  are  recorded  their  names  and  ages 
and  the  time  of  their  death,  and  so  much  can  be  read 
on  these  monuments  of  the  oaks,  with  some  additional 
reUable  information,  as  where  they  lived,  and  how 
healthily,  and  what  trees  succeeded  them,  etc.,  etc. 

Looking  at  Sophia's  large  collection  of  acorns  from 
Sleepy  Hollow  and  elsewhere,  I  cannot  find  a  sound 
white  oak  one  (i.  e.  not  decayed  and  blackened),  but 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        THE  AGE   OF  AN  OAK  LOT         155 

the  black  and  shrub  oaks  at  least  are  sound.  This  sug- 
gests that  the  very  fertile  shrub  oaks  are  more  sure  of 
succeeding  and  spreading,  while  the  noblest  oak  of  all 
may  fail. 

First,  by  examining  the  twigs  (vide  Coultas)  you  tell 
the  age  and  the  number  of  shoots  and  the  leaves  and  the 
various  accidents  of  the  tree  for  half  a  dozen  years 
past, — can  read  its  history  very  minutely;  and  at 
length,  when  it  is  cut  down,  you  read  its  ancient  and 
general  history  on  its  stump. 

If  you  would  know  the  age  of  a  young  oak  lot,  look 
round  for  a  sprout,  —  for  there  will  commonly  be  some 
to  be  found  even  in  a  seedling  wood,  —  cut,  and  count 
the  rings.  But  if  you  have  to  count  the  rings  of  a  seed- 
ling, begin  about  six  inches  from  the  ground,  for  it  was 
probably  so  high  when  the  previous  wood  was  cut. 

Oct  20.  E.  Hosmer  tells  me  to-day  that  while  digging 
mud  at  the  Pokelogan  the  other  day  he  found  several 
fresh  acorns  planted  an  inch  or  two  deep  under  the 
grass  just  outside  the  oaks  and  bushes  there.  Almost 
every  observant  farmer  finds  one  such  deposit  each 
year. 

If  that  Merriam  lot  is  fifteen  rods  square,  then,  instead 
of  there  being  no  oaks  in  it,  there  are  some  twenty-five 
hundred  oaks  in  it,  or  far  more  oaks  than  pines,  —  say 
five  times  as  many,  for  there  are  probably  not  nearly 
five  hundred  pines  in  the  lot.  This  is  only  one  of  the 
thousand  cases  in  which  the  proprietor  and  woodchopper 
tell  you  that  there  is  not  a  single  oak  in  the  lot.  So  the 
tables  were  turned,  and,  so  far  as  numbers  were  con- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


156  JOURNAL  [Oct.  20 

cemed,  it  would  have  been  truer  to  say  that  this  was  an 
exclusively  oak  wood  and  that  there  were  no  pines  in  it. 
Truly  appearances  are  deceptive. 

P.  M.  —  To  Walden  Woods  to  examine  old  stumps. 

In  Trillium  Wood  the  trees  are  chiefly  pine,  and  I 
judge  them  to  be  forty  to  fifty  years  old,  though  there 
are  not  a  few  oaks,  etc.  Beneath  them  I  find  some  old 
pitch  pine  stumps  and  one  white  pine.  They  would  not 
be  seen  by  a  careless  observer;  they  are  indistinct 
mounds  and  preserve  no  form  nor  marks  of  the  axe. 
This  is  low  ground.  Part  of  the  cores,  etc.,  of  the  stumps 
are,  nevertheless,  preserved  by  fat. 

I  then  look  at  Farrar's  [  ?]  hill  lot  east  of  the  Deep  Cut. 
This  is  oak,  cut,  as  I  remember,  some  twenty-five  years 
ago,  the  trees  say  five  to  eight  inches  [in]  diameter.  I  find 
beneath  the  oaks  innumerable  pitch  pine  stumps,  well 
preserved,  or  rather,  distinct,  some  of  them  two  feet  and 
more  in  diameter,  with  bark  nearly  three  inches  thick 
at  the  ground,  but  generally  fifteen  inches  in  diameter. 
Though  apparently  thoroughly  rotten  and  of  a  rough 
(crumbly)  conical  form  and  more  or  less  covered  with 
fine  moss  (hypnum),  they  were  firm  within  on  account 
of  the  fat  in  flakes  on  the  whole  core^  and  frequently 
showed  the  trace  of  the  axe  in  the  middle.  I  could  get 
cartloads  of  fat  pine  there  now,  often  lifting  out  with  my 
hands  the  whole  core,  a  clear  mass  of  yellow  fat.  When  the 
stump  was  almost  a  mere  mound  mossed  over,  breaking 
off  an  inch  or  two  deep  of  the  crust,  with  the  moss,  I  could 
still  trace  on  one  side  the  straight  edge  made  by  the  axe. 
There  were  also,  especially  on  the  lower,  or  northern, 
side,  some  large  oak  stumps,  no  doubt  of  the  same  age. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  AN   OLD  WOOD-LOT  157 

These  were  much  better  preserved  than  the  pines»  —  at 
least  the  part  above  ground.  The  whole  shape  and 
almost  every  stroke  of  the  axe  apparent  sometimes,  as 
in  a  fresh  stump.  I  counted  from  seventy  to  seventy-five 
rings  on  one.  The  present  wood  appears  to  be  chiefly 
from  the  seed,  with  some  sprouts.  The  latter  two  or 
more  close  together,  with  the  old  stump  more  or  less 
overgrown.  The  sprouts,  I  think,  were  from  small  trees. 
(Methinks  you  do  not  see  trees  which  have  sprouted 
from  old  or  large  stumps  two  or  three  feet  in  diameter. 
I  doubt  if  a  very  old  wood,  like  E.  Hubbard's,  would 
send  up  sprouts  from  the  stump.)  I  saw  one  large  oak 
stump  so  much  decayed  that  it  may  have  belonged  to  a 
generation  further  back. 

I  next  examined  Ebby  Hubbard's  old  oak  and  pine 
wood.  The  trees  may  be  a  hundred  years  old.  The 
older  or  decaying  trees  have  been  cut  out  from  time  to 
time,  neglecting  these  more  recent  stumps.  The  very 
oldest  evidences  of  a  tree  were  a  hollow  three  or  four 
feet  across,  in  which  you  often  slumped,  —  a  hollow 
place  in  which  squirrels  have  their  holes  covered  with 
many  layers  of  leaves,  and  perhaps  with  young  oaks 
springing  up  in  it,  for  the  acorns  rolled  into  it.  But  if 
you  dug  there,  from  under  the  moss  (there  was  com- 
monly a  little  green  moss  around  it)  and  leaves  and  soil, 
in  the  midst  of  the  virgin  mould  which  the  tree  had 
turned  to,  you  pulled  up  flakes  and  shoulder-blades  of 
wood  that  might  still  be  recognized  for  oak,  portions 
preserved  by  some  quality  which  they  concentrated, 
like  the  fat  leaves  or  veins  of  the  pine,  —  the  oak  of  oak. 
But  for  the  most  part  it  was  but  the  mould  and  mildew 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


158  JOURNAL  [Oct.  20 

of  the  grave,  —  the  grave  of  a  tree  which  was  cut  or 
died  eighty  or  a  hundred  years  ago  there.  It  is  with 
the  graves  of  trees  as  with  those  of  men,  —  at  first  an 
upright  stump  (for  a  monument),  in  course  of  time  a 
mere  mound,  and  finally,  when  the  corpse  has  decayed 
and  shrunk,  a  depression  in  the  soil.  In  such  a  hollow 
it  is  better  to  plant  a  pine  than  an  oak.  The  only  other 
ancient  traces  of  trees  were  perhaps  the  semiconical 
mounds  which  had  been  heaved  up  by  trees  which  fell 
in  some  hurricane. 

I  saw  where  Ebby  had  tried  a  pitch  pine  with  his  axe, 
though  there  was  not  a  green  twig  on  it,  and  the  wood- 
peckers had  bored  it  from  top  to  bottom,  —  effectually 
proved  it,  if  he  had  not  been  blind. 

Looked  at  that  pitch  and  white  pine  wood  just  east 
of  Close  at  Brister  Spring,  which  I  remember  as  pas- 
ture some  thirty  years  ago.  The  pasture  is  still  betrayed 
under  the  pines  by  the  firmer,  sward-like  surface,  there 
being  fewer  leaves  and  less  of  leafy  mould  formed,  — 
less  virgin  soil,  —  and  by  the  patches  of  greien  (pine) 
moss  and  white  cladonia  peeping  out  here  and  there. 

Young  chestnuts  (I  dig  up  three  or  four)  have  not  the 
large  roots  that  oaks  have^ 

I  see  the  acom  after  the  tree  is  five  or  six  years  old. 

Brassica  NajmSy  or  rape,  a  second  crop,  is  blooming 
now,  especially  where  grain  has  been  cut  and  the  field 
laid  down  to  grass  and  clover.  It  has  there  little  slender 
plants;  rough,  or  bristly,  lower  leaves. 

1st.  There  is  the  primitive  wood,  woodland  which  was 
woodland  when  the  township  was  settled,  and  which 
has  not  been  cut  at  all.   Of  this  I  know  of  none  in  Con- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    A   CLASSIFICATION   OF   WOODS      159 

cord.  Where  is  the  nearest  ?  There  is,  perhaps,  a  large 
tract  in  Winchendon. 

2d.  Second  growth,  the  woodland  which  has  been  cut 
but  once,  —  true  second  growth.  This  country  has  been 
so  recently  settled  that  a  large  part  of  the  older  States  is 
covered  now  with  this  second  growth,  and  the  same 
name  is  occasionally  still  applied,  though  falsely,  to  those 
wood-lots  which  have  been  cut  twice  or  many  more 
times.  Of  this  second  growth  I  think  that  we  have  con- 
siderable left,  and  I  remember  much  more.  These  are 
our  forests  which  contain  the  largest  and  oldest  trees,  — 
shingle  pines  (very  few  indeed  left)  and  oak  timber. 

3d.  Primitive  woodland,  t.  e,y  which  has  always  been 
woodland,  never  cultivated  or  converted  into  pasture  or 
grain-field,  nor  burned  over  intentionally.  Of  two  kinds, 
fii*st,  that  which  has  only  been  thinned  from  time  to 
time,  and  secondly,  that  which  has  been  cut  clean  many 
times  over.    A  larger  copsewood, 

4th.  Woodland  which  has  been  cleared  one  or  more 
times,  enough  to  raise  a  crop  of  grain  on  it,  burned  over 
and  perhaps  harrowed  or  even  plowed,  and  suffered  to 
grow  up  again  in  a  year  or  two.  Call  this  "  interrupted 
woodland"  or  "tamed." 

5th.  New  woods,  or  which  have  sprung  up  de  novo  on 
land  which  has  been  cultivated  or  cleared  long  enough 
to  kill  all  the  roots  in  it.  (The  3d,  4th,  and  5th  are  a  kind 
of  copse  wood.) 

6th.  Artificial  woods,  or  those  which  have  been  set 
out  or  raised  from  the  seed,  artificially. 

It  happens  that  we  have  not  begun  to  set  out  and  plant 
till  all  the  primitive  wood  is  gone.    All  the  rtew  woods  ( or 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


160  JOURNAL  [Oct.  20 

•5th  kind)  whose  beginning  I  can  (now)  remember  are 
pine  or  birch  (maple,  etc.,  I  have  not  noticed  enough). 
I  suspect  that  the  greater  part  ( ?)  of  our  woodknd  is  the 
3d  kind,  or  primitive  woodland,  never  burned  over  in- 
tentionally nor  plowed,  though  much  of  it  is  the  4th 
kind.  Probably  almost  all  the  large  wood  cut  ten  or 
fifteen  years  ago  (and  since)  here  was  second  growth, 
and  most  that  we  had  left  was  cut  then. 

Of  the  new  woods  I  remember  the  beginning  of 
E.  Hubbard's  east  of  Brister  Spring;  Bear  Garden, 
pitch  pine;  Wheeler's  pigeon-place,  pitch  pine;  also 
his  blackberry-field,  pitch  pine  and  a  few  white;  West 
Fair  Haven  Spring  woods,  pitch  pine  and  white;  E. 
Hubbard's  Close  Mound,  pitch  pine;  Conantum-top, 
pitch  pine;  Mason's  pasture  (?),  white  pine;  behind 
Baker's  (? ),  pitch  pine;  my  field  at  Walden,  pitch  pine; 
Kettle  Hill,  pitch  pine;  Moore's  corn-hill,  pitch  pine, 
cut  say  '59;  behind  Moore's  house  (??),  pitch  pine 
(was  it  new.^);  front  of  Sleepy  Hollow,  popl^.rs,  pitch 
pine;  E.  Wood's,  front  of  Colbum  place  (??),  pitch 
pine,  not  new  wood;  John  Hosmer's,  beyond  house  ( ? ), 
pitch  pine;  Fair  Haven  Hill-side,  white  pine,  just 
begun;  Merriam's  pasture,  beyond  Beck  Stow's,  just 
begun,  pitch  pine;  old  coast  behind  Heywood's,  pitch 
pine;  Conant's  white  pine  crescent  in  front  of  W. 
Wheeler's;  J.  P.  Brown  pasture,  white  pine;  at  Hem- 
locks, pitch  pine;  northwest  of  Assabet  stone  bridge, 
pitch  pine;  Tarbell's  pitch  pines;  Baker's,  above 
beech,  pitch  pine;  Henry  Shattuck's,  pitch  pine; 
northwest  of  Farmer's,  pitch  pine;  William  Brown's, 
pitch  pine;  north  of  H.  Shattuck's,  pitch  pine;  white 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  TAME  SQUIRREL  161 

and  pitch  pine  south  of  Rice's  lot;  pitch  pine  northwest 
of  old  Comer  schoolhouse,  pitch  pine  southeast  of  new 
0)mer  schoolhouse;  large  pitch  pine  hill  behind 
Hagar's  in  Lincoln. 

In  several  of  these  new  woods  —  pitch  pine  and 
birches  —  can  see  the  old  eom-hills  still. 

The  woods  within  my  recollection  have  gradually 
withdrawn  further  from  the  village,  and  woody  capes 
which  jutted  from  the  forest  toward  the  town  are  now 
cut  oflf  and  separated  by  cleared  land  behind.  The 
Irish  have  also  made  irruptions  into  our  woods  in 
several  places,  and  cleared  land. 

Edmund  Hosmer  telk  me  of  a  gray  squirrel  which  he 
kept  in  his  old  (Everett)  house ;  that  he  would  go  oflF  to 
the  woods  every  summer,  and  in  the  winter  come  back 
and  into  his  cage,  where  he  whirled  the  wire  cylinder. 
He  would  be  surprised  to  see  it  take  a  whole  and  large 
ear  of  com  and  run  out  a  broken  window  and  up  over 
the  roof  of  the  corn-bam  with  it,  and  also  up  the  elms. 

We  have  a  kitten  a  third  grown  which  often  carries 
its  tail  almost  flat  on  its  back  like  a  squirrel. 

Oct.  22.    P.  M.  —  To  Walden  Woods. 

See  in  the  yard  many  chip-birds,  but  methinks  the 
chestnut  crown  is  not  so  distinct  as  in  the  spring,  — 
has  a  pale  line  in  middle  of  it,  —  and'  many,  maybe 
females  or  young,  have  no  chestnut  at  all.  I  do  not 
find  them  so  described. 

Are  not  maples  inclined  to  die  in  a  white  pine  wood  ? 
There  was  the  one  in  Merriam's  grove  and  the  sickly 
ones  in  our  grove  in  the  yard. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


162  JOURNAL  [Oct.  22 

I  notice  that  the  first  shrubs  and  trees  to  spring  up 
in  the  sand  on  railroad  cuts  in  the  woods  are  sweet-fem, 
birches,  willows,  and  aspens,  and  pines,  white  and 
pitch;  but  all  but  the  last  two  chiefly  disappear  in  the 
thick  wood  that  follows.  The  former  are  the  pioneers. 
Such  sandy  places,  the  edges  of  meadows,  and  sprout- 
lands  are  almost  the  only  localities  of  willows  with  us. 

In  the  Deep  Cut  big  wood  (Stow's),  pines  and  oaks, 
there  are  thousands  of  little  white  pines  as  well  as  many 
oaks.  After  a  mixed  wood  like  this  you  may  have  a 
mixed  wood,  but  after  dense  pines,  commonly  oak 
chiefly,  yet  not  always;  for,  to  my  surprise,  I  find  that 
in  the  pretty  dense  pitch  pine  wood  of  Wheeler's 
blackberry-field,  where  there  are  only  several  white 
pines  old  enough  to  bear,  and  accordingly  more  than  a 
thousand  pitch  pine  seeds  to  one  white  pine  one,  yet 
there  are  countless  white  pines  springing  up  under  the 
pitch  pines  (as  well  as  many  oaks),  and  very  few  or 
scarcely  any  little  pitch  pines,  and  they  sickly,  or  a 
thousand  white  pine  seedlings  to  one  pitch  pine,  —  the 
same  proportion  reversed  (in  inverse  proportion).  It 
is  the  same  in  the  pigeon-place  lot  east  of  this.  So  if  you 
should  cut  these  pitch  pines  you  would  have  next  a 
white  pine  wood  with  some  oaks  in  it,  the  pines  taking 
the  lead.  Indeed,  these  white  pines  bid  fair  to  supplant 
the  pitch  pines  at  last,  for  they  grow  well  and  steadily. 
This  reminds  me  that,  though  I  often  see  little  white 
pines  under  pines  and  under  oaks,  I  rarely  if  ever  (unless 
I  am  mistaken)  see  many  young  pitch  pines  there.  How 
is  it  ?   Do  the  pitch  pines  require  more  light  and  air  ? 

You  may  conveniently  tell  the  age  of  a  pine,  especially 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  GALLS  AND  GALL-FLIES  163 

white  pine,  by  cutting  oflF  the  lowest  branch  that  is  still 
growing  and  counting  its  rings.  Then  estimate  or  count 
the  rings  of  a  pine  growing  near  in  an  opening,  of  the 
same  height  as  to  that  branch,  and  add  the  two  sums 
together. 

I  found  in  the  midst  of  this  pitch  pine  wood  a  white 
oak  some  eight  feet  high  and  an  inch  and  a  half  thick  at 
ground,  which  had  borne  a  great  many  —  say  sixty  or  a 
hundred  —  large  oak-balk,  and  the  ground  beneath 
and  near  by  was  strewn  with  the  fragments  of  fifty  of 
them,  which  some  creature,  probably  a  squirrel,  —  for 
a  bird  could  hardly  have  opened  the  hard  nut-like 
kernel  within,  — had  opened,  no  doubt  for  their  living 
contents,  and  all  the  inside  was  gone.  They  looked  like 
egg-shells  strewn  about.  Opening  one,  I  found  within 
the  hard  kernel  a  humpbacked  black  fly  nearly  half 
an  inch  long,  body  and  wings,  with  a  very  large  or  full 
shining  black  abdomen  and  two  small  black  spots  on 
each  wing.  The  only  two  that  I  open  have  flies  in  them. 
Harris  says  that  this  fly  is  the  Cynips  confltiens,  and 
that  the  grub  becomes  a  chrysalis  in  the  autumn  and 
not,  commonly,  a  fly  till  spring,  though  he  has  known 
this  gall-fly  to  come  out  in  October.  It  must  have  been 
squirrels  (or  mice)  that  opened  them,  for  birds  could 
not  break  into  the  hard  kernel. 

Counted  the  rings  of  a  white  pine  stump  in  Hub- 
bard's owl  wood  by  railroad.  Ninety-four  years.  So 
this  was  probably  second  growth. 

Swamps  are,  of  course,  least  changed  with  us,  — 
are  nearest  to  their  primitive  state  of  any  woodland. 
Conunonly  they  have  only  been  cut,  not  redeemed. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


164  JOURNAL  [Oct.  22 

I  see  how  meadows  were  primitively  kept  in  the  state 
of  meadow  by  the  aid  of  water,  —  and  even  fire  and 
wind.  For  example,  Heywood's  meadow,  though  it 
may  have  been  flowed  a  hundred  years  ago  by  the  dam 
below,  has  been  bare  almost  ever  since  in  the  midst  of 
the  wood.  Trees  have  not  grown  over  it.  Maples, 
alders,  birches,  pitch  and  white  pines  are  slow  to  spread 
into  it.  I  have  named  them  in  the  order  of  their  slow- 
ness. The  last  are  the  foremost,  —  furthest  into  the 
meadow,  —  but  they  are  sickly-looking.  You  may  say 
that  it  takes  a  geological  change  to  make  a  wood-lot 
there. 

Looked  at  stumps  in  J.  Hosmer's  lot,  hillside  south 
of  first  Heywood  meadow,  cut  eleven  (?)  years  ago. 
One  white  pine  perfect  in  shape,  forty-one  rings;  two 
large  oak  stumps,  each  one  hundred  and  nine  rings; 
and  a  large  pitch  pine,  probably  same  age.  These 
stumps  are  all  well  preserved.  The  whole  outline  and 
the  rings  can  for  most  part  be  counted;  but  they  are 
successive  ridges,  and  the  bark  is  ready  to  fall  oflF, 
and  they  are  more  or  less  mossed  over  with  cockscomb 
moss.  The  main  part  of  this  lot  north  of  this  hole  is 
apparently  oak  sprouts  next  railroad. 

I  next  look  through  Emerson's  lot  (half-burned  and 
cut  last  spring).  The  last  year's  growth  (and  present) 
chiefly  oak,  with  a  little  pine.  The  stumps  are  chiefly 
oak  and  pitch  pine,  with  apparently  some  hemlock  (?) 
and  chestnut  and  a  little  white  pine.  (So  it  seems  the 
pitch  pine  and  hemlock  did  not  survive  the  old  cutting; 
the  pitch  pine  did  not  come  up  under  itself.)  The  pitch 
pine  stumps  are  all  decayed  but  the  core  and  the  bark» 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  OAK  AND  PINE  STUMPS  165 

and  hardly  in  any  instance  show  a  trace  of  the  axe. 
They  are  low  rounded  mounds,  yet  the  inmost  parts  are 
solid  fat,  and  the  bark  edge  is  very  plain.  The  oak 
stumps  are  very  much  better  preserved, — have  half 
or  two  thirds  their  form,  and  show  that  proportion  of 
the  cutting,  —  yet  the  sap-wood  is  often  gone  (with  the 
bark),  and  as  often  the  inmost  heart.  You  can  partially 
count  rings  even.  Yet  some  of  these  are  as  decayed  as 
the  pines,  and  all  flaky,  and,  turned  up,  look  like 
stumps  of  old  teeth  with  their  prongs.  They  (the  oaks) 
are  all  loose  to  the  foot,  yet  you  will  see  the  white  bark 
lying  about  a  white  oak  stump  when  all  the  rest  is  about 
gone.  Most  of  the  old  stumps,  both  oaks  and  pines, 
can  easily  be  found  now,  but  the  rings  of  not  one  oak 
even  can  be  wholly  counted,  or  nearly.  I  could  not  be 
sure  about  the  hemlock  and  chestnut,  only  that  there 
was  some  of  both.  There  was  little  moss  on  these 
stumps,  either  pine  or  oak;  the  latter  too  crumbly. 

The  southeast  part  of  this  lot,  beyond  the  deep 
cove,  is  apparently  an  oak  sprout-land  and  good  part 
pine.  I  see  what  were  sprouts  from  a  scarlet  oak  stump 
eighteen  or  more  inches  in  diameter  and  from  white 
oaks  one  foot  in  diameter;  yet  in  the  other  lot,  though 
there  were  so  many  large  oak  stumps,  I  did  not  notice 
that  trees  had  ever  sprung  from  them.  You  find  plenty 
of  old  oak  stumps  without  their  trees  in  the  woods, 
which  (if  nothing  else)  shows  that  there  is  an  end  to 
this  mode  of  propagation. 

I  could  tell  a  white  pine  here  when  it  was  for  the  most 
part  a  mere  rotten  mound,  by  the  regularity  crosswise 
of  the  long  knots  a  foot  from  the  ground  in  the  top  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


166  JOURNAL  [Oct.  22 

the  rotten  core,  representing  the  peculiarly  regular 
branches  of  the  little  white  pine  and  the  best  preserved 
as  the  hardest  and  pitchiest  part. 

It  is  apparent  that  fires  often  hasten  the  destruction  of 
these  stumps.   They  are  very  apt  to  be  charred. 

I  dug  in  the  hollow  where  an  oak  had  been,  and 
though  it  was  so  completely  decayed  that  I  found  not  a 
particle  that  looked  like  decayed  wood  or  even  bark 
and  my  spade  met  with  no  resistance,  yet  there  were 
perfectly  open  channels  raying  out  from  this  hollow 
with  the  pellicle  of  the  root  for  a  wall  still,  which  for  a 
hundred  years  the  earth  had  learned  to  respect.  Indeed, 
these  stumps,  both  of  this  age  and  more  recent,  are  the 
very  metropolis  of  the  squirrels  and  mice.  Such  are 
their  runways. 

Yet  what  is  the  character  of  our  gratitude  to  these 
squirrels,  these  planters  of  forests  ?  We  regard  them  as 
vermin,  and  annually  shoot  and  destroy  them  in  great 
numbers,  because  —  if  we  have  any  excuse  —  they 
sometimes  devour  a  little  of  our  Indian  com,  while, 
perhaps,  they  are  planting  the  nobler  oak-corn  (acorn) 
in  its  place.  In  various  parts  of  the  country  an  army  of 
grown-up  boys  assembles  for  a  squirrel  hunt.  They 
choose  sides,  and  the  side  that  kills  the  greatest  number 
of  thousands  enjoys  a  supper  at  the  expense  of  the 
other  side,  and  the  whole  neighborhood  rejoices.  Would 
it  [not]  be  far  more  civilized  and  humane,  not  to  say 
godlike,  to  recognize  once  in  the  year  by  some  signifi- 
cant symbolical  ceremony  the  part  which  the  squirrel 
plays,  the  great  service  it  performs,  in  the  economy  of 
the  universe  ? 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  AN   OLD  PITCH  PINE  167 

The  Walden  side  of  Emerson's  main  wood-lot  is 
oak  (except  a  few  pines  in  the  oaks  at  the  northwest 
or  railroad  end),  and  the  oaks  are  chiefly  sprouts,  some 
thirty  years  old.  Yet,  not  to  mention  the  pitch  pine 
stumps,  there  are  a  great  many  oak  stumps  without 
sprouts,  and  yet  not  larger  stumps  than  the  others. 
How  does  this  happen  ?  They  are  all  of  the  same  age, 
i.  e.  cut  at  the  same  time. 

Sometimes,  evidently,  when  you  see  oak  stumps 
from  which  no  trees  have  sprung  in  the  midst  of  a  pine 
gr  birch  wood,  it  may  be  because  the  land  was  cleared 
and  burned  over  and  cultivated  after  the  oaks  were  cut. 

Oct  23.  Anthony  Wright  tells  me  that  he  cut  a  pitch 
pine  on  Damon's  land  between  the  Peter  Haynes  road 
and  his  old  farm,  about  '41,  in  which  he  counted  two 
hundred  and  seventeen  rings,  which  was  therefore  older 
than  Concord,  and  one  of  the  primitive  forest.  He  tells 
me  of  a  noted  large  and  so-called  primitive  wood.  Inches 
Wood,  between  the  Harvard  turnpike  and  Stow,  some- 
times called  Stow  Woods,  in  Boxboro  and  Stow.  Also 
speaks  of  the  wood  north  of  Wetherbee's  mill  near 
Annursnack  and  belonging  to  W.,  as  large  and  old,  if 
not  cut. 

Melvin  thinks  that  a  fox  would  not  on  an  average 
weigh  more  than  ten  pounds.  Says  that  he  saw  a  flock 
of  brant  yesterday  by  day.  (Rarely  seen  by  day  or  even 
by  night  here.)  He  says  that  Hildreth  collects  moss 
(probably  cladonia)  from  the  rocks  for  kindling. 

There  is  no  such  mortality  in  nobler  seeds  —  seeds  of 
living  creatures,  as  eggs  of  birds,  for  instance  —  as  I 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


168  JOURNAL  [Oct.  23 

have  noticed  in  white  oak  acorns.  What  if  the  eggs  of 
any  species  of  bird  should  be  addled  to  this  extent,  so  that 
it  should  be  hard  to  find  a  sound  one  ?  In  Egypt,  where 
they  hatch  eggs  artificially  in  an  oven,  they  can  afford 
to  return  one  chicken  for  every  two  eggs  they  receive 
(and  do  so)  and  yet  find  it  profitable.  It  is  true  one 
third  of  human  infants  are  said  to  die  before  they  are 
five  years  old,  but  even  this  is  a  far  less  mortality  than 
that  of  the  acorns.  The  oak  is  a  scarce  bearer,  yet  it 
lasts  a  good  while. 

More  or  less  rain  to-day  and  yesterday. 

Oct.  24.  P.  M.  —  To  Walden  Woods. 

See  three  little  checkered  adders  lying  in  the  sun  by  a 
stump  on  the  sandy  slope  of  the  Deep  Cut;  yet  sluggish. 
They  are  seven  or  eight  inches  long.  The  dark  blotches 
or  checkers  are  not  so  brown  as  in  large  ones.  There  is 
a  transverse  dark  mark  on  the  snout  ^^^  and  a 
forked  light  space  ^\y)  on  the  back  part  [of]  the 

head.  \/ 

Examine  again  %J  Emerson's  pond  lot,  to  learn 
its  age  by  the  stumps  cut  last  spring.  I  judge  from 
them  that  they  were  some  five  (?)  years  cutting  over 
the  part  next  the  water,  for  I  count  the  rings  of  many 
stumps  and  they  vary  in  number  from  twenty-four 
or  five  to  thirty,  though  twenty-six,  seven,  and  eight 
are  commonest,  as  near  as  I  can  count.  It  is  hard  to 
distinguish  the  very  first  ring,  and  often  one  or  more 
beside  before  you  reach  the  circumference.  But,  these 
being  almost  all  sprouts,  I  know  that  they  were  pretty 
large  the  first  year.     I  repeatedly  see  beside  the  new 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  EMERSON'S  WOOD-LOT  169 

tree  (cut  last  spring)  the  now  well-rotted  stump  from 
which  it  sprang.  But  I  do  not  see  the  stump  from  which 
the  last  sprang.  I  should  like  to  know  how  long  they 
may  continue  to  spring  from  the  stump.  Here  are 
shoots  of  this  year  which  have  sprung  vigorously  from 
stumps  cut  in  the  spring,  which  had  sprung  in  like 
manner  some  twenty-eight  or  thirty  years  ago  from  a 
stump  which  is  still  very  plain  by  their  sides.  I  see  that 
some  of  these  thirty-year  trees  are  sprouts  from  a*  white 
oak  stump  twenty  inches  in  diameter,  —  four  from  one 
in  one  case.  Sometimes,  when  a  white  pine  stump  is  all 
crumbling  beside,  there  is  a  broad  shingle-like  flake 
left  from  the  centre  to  the  circumference,  the  old  ridge 
of  the  stump,  only  a  quarter  of 

an  inch  thick,  and  this  betrays  .ff^\T{\i  ^'iMjf 

the  axe  in  a  straight   inclined  '^  * 

surface. 

The  southeast  part  of  Emerson*s  lot,  next  the  pond, 
is  yet  more  exclusively  oak  sprouts,  or  oak  from  oak, 
with  fewer  pine  stumps.  I  examine  an  oak  seedling  in 
this.  There  are  two  very  slender  shoots  rising  ten  or 
more  inches  above  the  groimd,  which,  traced  down- 
ward, conduct  to  a  little  stub,  which  I  mistook  for  a 
very  old  root  or  part  of  a  larger  tree,  but,  digging  it 
up,  I  found  it  to  be  a  true  seedling.  This  seedh'ng  had 
died  down  to  the  ground  six  years  ago,  and  then  these 
two  slender  shoots,  such  as  you  commonly  see  in  oak 
woods,  had  started.  The  root  was  a  regular  seedling 
root  (fusiform  if  straightened), at  least  seven  eighths  of  an 
inch  thick,  while  the  largest  shoot  was  only  one  eighth  of 
an  inch  thick,  though  six  years  old  and  ten  inches  high. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


170  JOURNAL  [Oct.  24 

The  root  was  probably  ten  years  old  when  the  seedling 
first  died  down,  and  is  now  some  sixteen  years  old.  Yet, 
as  I  say,  the  oak  is  only  ten  inches  high.  This  shows 
how  it  endures  and  gradually  pines  and  dies.  As  you 
look  down  on  it,  it  has  two  turns,  and  three  as 

you  look  from  the  side,  ^        \y/  so  firmly  is 

it  rooted.  Any  one  will     ,    #^  '   be  surprised 

on  diggmg  up  some  of  "~f"^  these  lusty  oaken 
carrots.  ^^^^^ 

Look     at     stumps  ^^  in  Heywood's  lot, 

southeast  side  pond,  from  Emerson's  to  the  swim- 
ming-place. They  are  white  pine,  oak,  pitch  pine, 
etc.  I  count  rings  of  three  white  pine  (from  sixty  to 
seventy).  There  are  a  few  quite  large  white  pine 
stumps;  on  one,  ninety  rings.  One  oak  gives  one  hun- 
dred and  sixteen  rings.  A  pitch  pine  some  fifteen 
or  sixteen  inches  over  gives  about  one  hundred  and 
thirty-five.  All  these  are  very  easy,  if  not  easier  than 
ever,  to  count.  The  pores  of  the  pines  are  distinct  ridges, 
_     _  and  the  pitch  is  worn  oflF.    (Many 

white  and  pitch  pines  elsewhere 
cut  this  year  cannot  be  counted,  they  are  so  covered 
with  pitch.)  I  remember  this  as  a  particularly  dense 
and  good-sized  wood,  mixed  pine  and  oak. 

Mrs.  Heywood's  pitch  pines  by  the  shore,  judging 
from  some  cut  two  or  three  years  ago,  are  about  eighty- 
five  years  old.  As  far  as  I  have  noticed,  the  pitch  pine 
is  the  slowest-growing  tree  (of  pines  and  oaks)  and 
gives  the  most  rings  in  the  smallest  diameter.  ^^ 

Then   there   are    the    countless    downy   seeds      • 
(thistle-like)  of  the  goldenrods,  so  fine  that  we  do  not 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  WOOD-LOT   STUDIES  171 

notice  them  in  the  air.  They  cover  our  clothes  like 
dust.  No  wonder  they  spread  over  all  fields  and  far 
into  the  woods. 

I  see  those  narrow  pointed  yellow  buds  now  laid  bare 
so  thickly  along  the  slender  twigs  of  the  Saiix  discolor, 
which  is  almost  bare  of  leaves. 

Oct.  25.  P.  M.— To  Eb.  Hubbard's  wood  and 
Sleepy  Hollow. 

See  a  little  reddish-brown  snake  (bright-red  beneath) 
in  the  path;  probably  Coluber  amasnua. 

Cut  one  of  the  largest  of  the  lilacs  at  the  Nutting 
wall,  eighteen  inches  from  the  ground.  It  there  mea- 
sures one  and  five  sixteenths  inches  and  has  twenty 
distinct  rings  from  centre,  then  about  twelve  very  fine, 
not  thicker  than  previous  three;  equals  thirty-two  in 
all.  It  evidently  dies  down  many  times,  and  yet  Kves 
and  sends  up  fresh  shoots  from  the  root. 

Jarvis's  hill  lot  is  oak,  pitch  pine,  and  some  white, 
and  quite  old.  There  are  a  great  many  little  white 
pines  springing  up  under  it,  but  I  see  no  pitch.  Yet 
the  large  pitch  are  much  more  common  than  the  large 
white.  Nevertheless  the  small  white  have  come  on 
much  faster  and  more  densely  in  the  hollows  just  out- 
side the  large  wood  on  the  south. 

E.  Hubbard's  mound  of  pitch  pines  contains  not 
one  seed-bearing  white  pine,  yet  there  are  under  these 
pines  many  little  white  pines  (whose  seed  must  have 
blown  some  distance),  but  scarcely  one  pitch  pine. 
The  latter,  however,  are  seen  along  its  edge  and  in  the 
larger  openings.    So  at  Moore's  pitch  pine  promontory 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


172  JOURNAL  [Oct.  25 

south  of  the  Foley  house,  cut  off  lately  by  Walcott. 
Where  the  large  pines  had  stood  are  no  little  ones, 
but  in  the  open  pasture  northward  quite  a  little  grove, 
which  had  spread  from  them.  Yet  from  a  hasty  look 
at  the  south  end  of  the  Sleepy  Hollow  Cut  pitch  pines, 
it  appeared  that  small  pitch  pines  were  abundant  under 
them.    Vide  again. 

I  have  seen  an  abundance  of  white  oak  acorns  this 
year,  and,  as  far  as  I  looked,  swamp  white  oak  acorns 
were  pretty  numerous.  Red  oak  acorns  are  also  pretty 
common.  Black  and  scarlet  oak  I  find  also,  but  not 
very  abundant.  I  have  seen  but  few  shrub  oak,  com- 
paratively. Of  the  above,  only  the  white  oak  have 
decayed  so  remarkably.  The  others  are  generally 
sound,  or  a  few  wormy.  The  red  oak,  as  far  as  I  notice, 
are  remarkably  sound.  The  scarlet  oak  I  cut  this 
afternoon  are  some  of  them  decaying,  but  not  like  the 
white  oak.  Only  the  white  have  sprouted  at  all,  as  far 
as  I  perceive. 

I  find  some  scarlet  oak  acorns  on  the  back  side 
northeast  end  of  Sleepy  Hollow  which  are  rounder  than 
usual,  considerably  like  a  filbert  out  of  the  shell.  They 
are  indistinctly  marked  with  meridional  lines  and  thus 
betray  a  relation  to  the  black  and  black  shrub  oak.* 

I  see  an  immense  quantity  of  asparagus  seed  in  the 
mist  of  its  dead  branches,  on  Moore's  great  field  of  it, 
near  Hawthorne's.  There  must  be  a  great  many  bushels 
of  the  seed,  and  the  sight  suggested  how  extensively 
the  birds  must  spread  it.  I  saw,  accordingly,  on  Haw- 
thorne's hillside,  a  dozen  rods  north  of  it,  many  plants 
*  Vide  swamp  white  oak,  p.  [180]. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  LARGE   PUFFBALLS  173 

(with  their  own  seed)  two  or  three  feet  high.  It  is 
planted  in  the  remotest  swamps  in  the  town. 

Saw  in  E.  Hubbard's  eUntonia  swamp  a  large  spider 
with  a  great  golden-colored  abdomen  as  big  as  a  hazel- 
nut, on  the  wet  leaves.  There  was  a  figure  in  brown 
lines  on  the  back,  in  the  form  of  a  pagoda  with  its 
stories  successively  smaller.  The  legs  were  pale  or 
whitish,  with  dark  or  brown  bars. 

Find  many  of  those  pale-brown  roughish  fungi  (it 
looks  Uke  Loudon's  plate  of  Scleroderma,  perhaps 
verrucosum),  two  to  three  inches  in  diameter.  Those 
which  are  ripe  are  so  softened  at  the  top  as  to  admit 
the  rain  through  the  skin  (as  well  as  after  it  opens),  and 
the  interior  is  shaking  Uke  a  jelly,  and  if  you  open  it 
you  see  what  looks  like  a  yellowish  gum  or  jelly  amid 
the  dark  fuscous  dust,  but  it  is  this  water  colored  by 
the  dust;  yet  when  they  are  half  full  of  water  they 
emit  dust  nevertheless.  They  are  in  various  states, 
from  a  firm,  hard  and  dry  unopen[ed]  to  a  half-empty 
and  flabby  moist  cup. 

See  the  yellow  butterfly  still  and  great  devil's-needles. 

Dug  up  and  brought  home  last  night  three  English 
cherry  trees  from  Heywood's  Peak  by  Walden.  There 
are  a  dozen  or  more  there,  and  several  are  as  handsome 
as  any  that  you  will  find  in  a  nursery.  They  remind 
me  of  some  much  larger  which  used  to  stand  above 
the  cliffs.  This  species  too  comes  up  in  sprout-lands 
Uke  the  wild  rum  cherry.  The  amount  of  it  is  that  such 
a  tree,  whose  fruit  is  a  favorite  with  birds,  will  spring 
up  far  and  wide  and  wherever  the  earth  is  bared  of 
trees,  but  since  the  forest  overpowers  and  destroys 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


174  JOURNAL  [Oct.  25 

them,  and  also  cultivation,  they  are  only  found  young  in 
sprout-lands  or  grown  up  along  fences.  It  looks  as  if 
this  species  preferred  a  hilltop.  Whether  the  birds 
are  more  inclined  to  convey  the  seeds  there  or  they 
find  the  light  and  exposure  and  the  soil  there  which 
they  prefer.  These  have  each  one  great  root,  some- 
what Uke  a  long  straight  horn,  making  a  right  angle 
with  the  stem  and  running  far  off  one  side  close  to  the 
surface. 

The  thistles  which  I  now  see  have  their  heads  re- 
curved, which  at  least  saves  their  down  from  so  great  a 
soaking.  But  when  I  pull  out  the  down,  the  seed  is  for 
the  most  part  left  in  the  receptacle  ( ? ),  in  regular  order 
there,  like  the  pricks  in  a  thimble.  A  slightly  convex 
surface.  The  seeds  set  like  cartridges  in  a  circular  car- 
tridge-box, in  hollow  cylinders  which  look  Uke  circles 
crowded  into  more  or  less  of  a  diamond,  pentagonal,  or 
hexagonal  form.  The  perfectly  dry  and  bristly  involucre 
which  hedges  them  round,  so  repulsive  externally,  is 
very  neat  and  attractive  within,  —  as  smooth  and  tender 
toward  its  charge  as  it  is  rough  and  prickly  externally 
toward  the  foes  that  might  do  it  injury.  It  is  a  hedge 
of  imbricated  thin  and  narrow  leafets  of  a  light-brown 
color,  beautifully  glossy  like  silk,  a  most  fit  receptacle 
for  the  delicate  downy  parachutes  of  the  seed,  a  cradle 
lined  with  silk  or  satin.  The  latter  are  kept  dry  under 
this  unsuspected  silky  or  satiny  ceiling,  whose  old  and 
weather-worn  and  rough  outside  alone  we  see,  like  a 
mossy  roof,  little  suspecting  the  delicate  and  glossy 
.  lining.  I  know  of  no  object  more  unsightly  to  a  care- 
less glance  than  an  empty  thistle-head,  yet,  if  you  ex- 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


1860]  A  SILK-LINED  CRADLE  175 

amine  it  closely,  it  may  remind  you  of  the  silk-lined 
cradle  in  which  a  prince  was  rocked.  Thus  that  which 
seemed  a  mere  brown  and  worn-out  relic  of  the  summer, 
sinking  into  the  earth  by  the  roadside,  turns  out  to  be  a 
precious  casket. 

I  notice  in  the  pitch  pine  wood  behind  Moore's  the 
common  pinweed  (Lechea  major  or  the  next)  growing 
on  the  top  of  a  pitch  pine  stump  which  is  yet  quite  in 
shape  and  firm,  one  foot  from  the  ground,  with  its 
roots  firmly  set  in  it,  reaching  an  inch  or  two  deep. 
Probably  the  seed  was  blown  there,  perhaps  over  the; 
snow  when  it  was  on  a  level  with  the  stump. 

Oct.  26.  P.  M.  —  To  Baker's  old  chestnut  lot  near 
Flibt's  Pond. 

As  I  go  through  what  was  formerly  the  dense  pitch 
pine  lot  on  Thrush  Alley  (G.  Hubbard's),  I  observe 
that  the  present  growth  is  scrub  oak,  birch,  oaks  of 
various  kinds,  white  pines,  pitch  pines,  willows,  and 
poplars.  Apparently,  the  birch,  oaks,  and  pitch  pines 
are  the  oldest  of  the  trees.  From  the  number  of  small 
white  pines  in  the  neighboring  pitch  pine  wood,  I 
should  have  expected  to  find  larger  and  also  more 
white  pines  here.  It  will  finally  become  a  mixed  wood 
of  oak  and  white  and  pitch  pine.  There  is  much 
cladonia  in  the  lot. 

Observed  yesterday  that  the  row  of  white  pines  set 
along  the  fence  on  the  west  side  of  Sleepy  Hollow  had 
grown  very  fast,  apparently  from  about  the  time  they 
were  set  out,  or  the  last  three  years.  Several  had  made 
about  seven  feet  within  the  three  years.    Do  they  not 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


176  JOURNAL  [Oct.  26 

grow  the  fastest  at  just  this  age,  or  after  they  get  to  be 
about  five  feet  high  ? 

I  see  to-day  sprouts  from  chestnut  stumps  which  are 
two  and  a  half  feet  in  diameter  (i.  e,  the  stumps).  One 
of  these  large  stumps  is  cut  quite  low  and  hollowing,  so 
as  to  hold  water  as  well  as  leaves,  and  the  leaves  prevent 
the  water  from  drying  up.  It  is  evident  that  in  such 
a  case  the  stump  rots  sooner  than  if  high  and  roof- 
Uke. 

I  remember  that  there  were  a  great  many  hickories 
jvith  R.  W.  E.'s  pitch  pines  when  I  lived  there,  but  now 
there  are  but  few  comparatively,  and  they  appear  to 
have  died  down  several  times  and  come  up  again  from 
the  root.  I  suppose  it  is  mainly  on  account  of  frosts, 
though  perhaps  the  fires  have  done  part  of  it.  Are  Aot 
hickories  most  commonly  found  on  hills?  There  are 
a  few  hickories  in  the  open  land  which  I  once  culti- 
vated there,  and  these  may  have  been  planted  there 
by  birds  or  squirrels.  It  naust  be  more  than  thirty-five 
years  since  there  was  wood  there. 

I  find  little  white  pines  under  the  pitch  pines  (of  E.), 
near  the  pond  end,  and  few  or  no  little  pitch  pines,  but 
between  here  and  the  road  about  as  many  of  one  as  of 
the  other,  but  the  old  pines  are  much  less  dense  that 
way,  or  not  dense  at  all. 

This  is  the  season  of  the  fall  when  the  leaves  are 
whirled  through  the  air  like  flocks  of  birds,  the  season 
of  birch  spangles,  when  you  see  afar  a  few  clear-yellow 
leaves  left  on  the  tops  of  the  birches. 

It  was  a  mistake  for  Britton  to  treat  that  Fox  Hollow 
lot  as  he  did.  I  remember  a  large  old  pine  and  chestnut 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  CHESTNUT   LOT  177 

wood  there  some  twenty  years  ago.  He  came  and  cut 
it  oflF  and  burned  it  over,  and  ever  since  it  has  been 
good  for  nothing.  I  mean  that  acre  at  the  bottom  of 
the  hollow.  It  is  now  one  of  those  frosty  hollows  so 
common  in  Walden  Woods,  where  little  grows,  sheep's 
fescue  grass,  sweet-fern,  hazelnut  bushes,  and  oak 
scrubs  whose  dead  tops  are  two  or  three  feet  high,  while 
the  still  living  shoots  are  not  more  than  half  as  high  at 
their  base.  They  have  lingered  so  long  and  died  down 
annually.  At  length  I  see  a  few  birches  and  pines 
creeping  into  it,  which  at  this  rate  in  the  course  of  a 
dozen  years  more  will  suggest  a  forest  there.  Was  this 
wise? 

Examined  the  stumps  in  the  Baker  chestnut  lot 
which  was  cut  when  I  surveyed  it  in  the  spring  of  '52. 
They  were  when  cut  commonly  from  fifty  to  sixty  years 
old  (some  older,  some  younger).  The  sprouts  from  them 
are  from  three  to  six  inches  thick,  and  may  average  — 
the  largest  —  four  inches,  and  eighteen  feet  high.  The 
wood  is  perhaps  near  half  oak  sprouts,  and  these  are 
one  and  a  half  to  four  inches  thick,  or  average  two 
and  a  half,  and  not  so  high  as  the  chestnut.  Some  of 
the  largest  chestnut  stumps  have  sent  up  no  sprout,  yet 
others  equally  large  and  very  much  more  decayed  have 
sent  up  sprouts.  Can  this  be  owing  to  the  ^diflFerent 
time  when  they  were  cut  ?  The  cutting  was  after  April. 
The  largest  sprouts  I  chanced  to  notice  were  from  a 
small  stump  in  low  ground.  Some  hemlock  stumps 
there  had  a  hundred  rings. 

Was  overtaken  by  a  sudden  thunder-shower. 

Cut  a  chestnut  sprout  two  years  old.    It  grew  about 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


178  JOURNAL  [Oct.  26 

five  and  a  half  feet  the  first  year  and  three  and  a  half 
the  next,  and  was  an  inch  in  diameter.  The  tops  of  these 
sprouts,  the  last  few  inches,  had  died  in  the  winter,  so 
that  a  side  bud  continued  them,  and  this  made  a  slight 
curve  in  the  sprout,  thus:  There  was  on 

a   cross-section,   of   course,  ^  but  one  ring  of 

pores  within  the  wood,  ^  just  outside  the 
large  pith,  the  diameter  of    /  the  first  year's 

growth  being  just  half  an  inch,  radius  a 

fourth  of  an  inch.  The  thickness  of  the  second  year's 
growth  was  the  same,  or  one  fourth,  but  it  was  dis- 
tinctly marked  to  the  naked  eye  with  about  seven  con- 
centric lighter  lines,  which,  I  suppose,  marked  so  many 
successive  growths  or  waves  of  growth,  or  seasons  in  its 
year.  These  were  not  visible  through  a  microscope 
of  considerable  power,  but  best  to  the  naked  eye.  Prob- 
ably you  could  tell  a  seedling  chestnut  from  a  vigorous 
sprout,  however  old  or  large,  provided  the  heart  were 
perfectly  sound  to  the  pith,  by  the  much  more  rapid 
growth  of  the  last  the  first  half-dozen  years  of  its  exist- 
ence. 

There  are  scarcely  any  chestnuts  this  year  near 
Britton's,  but  I  find  as  many  as  usual  east  of  Flint's 
Pond. 

Oti,  27.  Emerson  planted  his  lot  with  acorns  (chiefly 
white  oak)  pretty  generally  the  other  day.  There  were 
a  few  scariet  oak  aooms  planted  there  on  the  south  side 
in  spring  of  '59.  There  is  on  the  Lee  farm,  west  of  hill, 
a  small  wood-lot  of  oak  and  hickory,  the  south  end 
chiefly  hickory. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    SEEDLING  OAKS  UNDER  PINES      179 

I  have  come  out  this  afternoon  to  get  ten  seedling  oaks 
out  of  a  purely  oak  wood,  and  as  many  out  of  a  purely 
pine  wood,  and  then  compare  them.  I  look  for  trees  one 
foot  or  less  in  height,  and  convenient  to  dig  up.  I  could 
not  find  one  in  the  last-named  wood.  I  then  searched 
in  the  large  Woodis  Park,  the  most  oaken  parts  of  it, 
wood  some  twenty-five  or  thirty  years  old,  but  I  found 
only  three.  There  were  many  shrub  oaks  and  others 
three  or  four  feet  high,  but  no  more  of  the  kind  de- 
scribed. Two  of  these  three  had  singularly  old  large  and 
irregular  roots,  mere  gnarled  oblong  knobs,  as  it  were, 
with  slender  shoots,  having  died  down  many  times. 
After  searching  here  more  than  half  an  hour  I  went 
into  the  new  pitch  and  white  pine  lot  just  southwest, 
toward  the  old  Lee  cellar,  and  there  were  thousands  of 
the  seedling  oaks  only  a  foot  high  and  less,  quite  redden- 
ing the  ground  now  in  some  places,  and  these  had  per- 
fectly good  roots,  though  not  so  large  as  those  near  the 
Comer  Spring  (next  to  Rice's  wall). 

Here  is  a  new  but  quite  open  pitch  and  white  pine 
wood  (with  birches  on  south)  on  cladonia  ground.  It 
is  so  open  that  many  pitch  pines  are  springing  up. 

E.  Wood's  dense  pitch  (and  white)  pine  wood  in  front 
of  Lee  house  site  conforms  to  the  rule  of  few  or  no  little 
pitch  pines  within  it,  but  many  white  pines  (though  not 
many  far  within),  while  the  pitch  pines  are  springing  up 
with  white  pines  on  the  edge  and  even  further  toward 
the  road.  • 

The  white  pine  wood  southeast  of  this  and  not  far 
north  of  railroad,  against  Wood's  open  land,  is  a  new 
wood. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


180  JOURNAL  [Oct.  27 

As  I  am  coming  out  of  this,  looking  for  seedling  oaks, 
I  see  a  jay,  which  was  screaming  at  me,  fly  to  a  white 
oak  eight  or  ten  rods  from  the  wood  in  the  pasture.and 
directly  alight  on  the  ground,  pick  up  an  acom,  and  fly 
back  into  the  woods  with  it.  This  was  one,  perhaps  the 
most  eflFectual,  way  in  which  this  wood  was  stocked  with 
the  numerous  little  oaks  which  I  saw  under  that  dense 
white  pine  grove.  Where  will  you  look  for  a  jay  sooner 
than  in  a  dense  pine  thicket  ?  It  is  there  they  commonly 
live,  and  build. 

By  looking  to  see  what  oaks  grow  in  the  open  land 
near  by  or  along  the  edge  where  the  wood  is  extensively 
pine,  I  can  tell  surely  what  kinds  of  oaks  I  shall  find 
under  the  pines. 

What  if  the  oaks  are  far  off?  Think  how  quickly 
a  jay  can  come  and  go,  and  how  many  times  in  a  day!  ^ 

Swamp  white  oak  acorns  are  pretty  thick  on  the 
ground  by  the  bridge,  and  all  sound  that  I  try.  They 
have  no  more  bitterness  than  the  white  oak  acorns. 

I  have  now  examined  many  dense  pine  woods,  both 
pitch  and  white,  and  several  oak  woods,  in  order  to  see 
how  many  and  what  kind  of  oak  seedlings  there  were 
springing  up  in  them,  and  I  do  not  hesitate  to  say  that 
seedlings  under  one  foot  high  are  very  much  more  abun- 
dant imder  the  pines  than  under  the  oaks.  They  prevail 
and  are  countless  imder  the  pines,  while  they  are  hard 
to  find  under  the  oaks,  and  what  you  do  find  have  com- 
monly —  for  whatever  reason  —  very  old  and  decayed 
roots  and  feeble  shoots  from  them. 

If  you  expect  oaks  to  succeed  a  dense  and  purely  oak 
»  Vide  [p.  188]. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    SEEDLING   OAKS  UNDER  PINES      181 

wood  you  must  depend  almost  entirely  on  sprouts,  but 
they  will  succeed  abundantly  to  pine  where  there  is  not 
an  oak  stump  for  them  to  sprout  from.  Notwithstanding 
that  the  acorns  are  produced  only  by  oaks  and  not  by 
pines,  the  fact  is  that  there  are  comparatively  few  seed- 
ling oaks  a  foot  or  less  in  height  under  the  oaks  but 
thousands  under  the  pines.  I  would  not  undertake  to 
get  a  hundred  oaks  of  this  size  suitable  to  transplant 
imder  a  dense  and  pure  oak  wood,  but  I  could  easily 
get  thousands  from  imder  pines.  What  are  the  reasons 
for  this  ?  First  it  is  certain  that,  generally  speaking,  the 
soil  under  old  oaks  is  more  exhausted  for  oaks  than 
under  old  pines.  Second,  seedling  oaks  under  oaks 
would  be  less  protected  from  frosts  in  the  spring  just 
after  leafing,  yet  the  sprouts  prevail.  Third,  squirrels 
and  jays  resort  to  evergreens  with  their  forage,  and  the 
oaks  may  not  bear  so  many  acorns  but  that  the  squirrels 
may  carry  oflF  nearly  all  the  soimd  ones.  These  are  some 
of  the  reasons  that  occur  to  me. 

To  be  more  minute: — 

I  dug  up  three  oak  seedlings  in  the  Woodis  Park  oaks, 
nine  in  the  small  open  pitch  and  white  pine  and  adjoin- 
ing on  southwest,  and  ten  in  the  pitch  and  white  pine 
of  wood  between  road  and  railroad. 

Woodis  Park  is  oak  and  pine  some  twenty-five  years 
old  (the  oak).  I  chose  the  oaken  parts,  but  there  was 
always  a  pine  within  a  rod  or  two.  I  looked  here  till  I 
was  discouraged,  finding  only  three  in  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.  One  was  like  those  in  pine  woods ;  the  other 
two  had  singular  gnarled  and  twisted  great  roots.  You 
would  think  you  had  come  upon  a  dead  but  buried 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


182  JOURNAL  [Oct.  27 

stump.  The  largest,  for  instance,  was  perhaps  a  red 
oak  nine  inches  high  by  one  eighth  inch  at  ground  and 
apparently  three  years  old,  a  slender  shoot.  The  root 
broke  off  at  about  eighteen  inches  depth,  where  it  was 
one  eighth  inch  thick,  and  at  three  inches  below  the 
surface  it  was  one  and  three  eighths  inches  thick  by 
one  inch  (being  flattish).  Two  or  three  of  the  side  or 
horizontal  fibres  had  developed  into  stout  roots  which 
ran  quite  horizontally  twenty  inches  and  then  broke  off, 
and  were  apparently  as  long  as  the  tap-root.  One  of 
these  at  three  inches  below  surface  was  about  half  an 
inch  thick  and  perfectly  horizontal.  It  was  thus  fixed 
very  firmly  in  the  ground.  I  counted  the  dead  bases  or 
stubs  of  shoots  (beside  the  present  one)  and  several  two 
or  three  times  as  large  as  this,  which  had  formerly  died 
down,  being  now  perfectly  decayed.  If  there  was  but  one 
at  a  time  and  they  decayed  successively  after  living 
^ch  three  years  only,  —  and  they  probably  lived  twice 
as  long,  —  then  the  root  would  be  thirty  years  old.  But 
supposing  there  were  one  and  a  half  shoots  at  a  time,  it 
would  then  be  some  twenty  years  old.  I  think  that  this 
root  may  be  as  old  as  the  large  oaks  around,  or  some 
twenty-five  years,  more  or  less. 

My  next  nine  oaks,  from  the  pines  southwest,  may 
be  put  with  the  ten  from  the  E.  Wood  pines  (leaving 
out  one  which  was  twice  the  required  height).  Their 
average  age,  i.  e,  of  the  present  shoot,  was  four  years, 
and  average  height  seven  inches.  (This  includes  white 
oak,  shrub  oak,  black,  and  apparently  red  oak.)  The 
roots  averaged  about  ten  inches  long  by  three  eighths 
thick  at  thickest  part.    Quite  a  number  were  shrub  oak, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  MIXED  WOODS  183 

which  partly  accounts  for  their  slenderness.  But  the 
rest  were  not  so  thick  as  those  near  Rice's  wall.  Of  all 
the  above  roots,  or  the  whole  twenty-two,  none  ran  di- 
rectly and  perpendicularly  downward,  but  they  turned 
to  one  side  (just  under  the  acom)  and  ran  more  or  less 
horizontally  or  aslant  one  to  five  inches,  or  say  three 
inches  on  an  average. 

Of  the  last  nineteen,  more  than  half  had  died  down 
once  at  least,  so  that  they  were  really  considerably  older 
than  at  first  appeared.  There  are,  in  all  cases,  at  the 
surface  of  the  ground  or  head  of  the  root,  a  ring  of  dor- 
mant buds,  ready  to  shoot  up  when  an  injury  happens 
to  the  original  shoot.  One  shoot  at  least  had  been  cut 
off,  and  so  killed,  by  a  rabbit. 

See  a  very  large  flock  of  crows. 

To  speak  from  recollection  of  pines  and  oaks,  I 
should  say  that  our  woods  were  chiefly  pine  and  oak 
mixed,  but  we  have  also  (to  speak  of  the  large  growth, 
or  trees)  pure  pine  and  pure  oak  woods.  How  are  these 
three  produced?  Are  not  the  pure  pine  woods  com- 
monly new  woods,  i.  e.  pioneers  ?  After  oaks  have  once 
got  established,  it  must  be  hard  to  get  them  out  without 
clearing  the  land.  A  pure  oak  wood  may  be  obtained  by  ^ 
cutting  off  at  once  and  clean  a  pure  and  dense  pine  wood^ 
and  again  sometimes  by  cutting  the  same  oak  wood. 
But  pines  are  continually  stealing  into  oaks,  and  oaks 
into  pines,  where  respectively  they  are  not  too  dense,  as 
where  they  are  burned  or  otherwise  thinned,  and  so 
mixed  woods  may  arise. 

Oct  28.    In  a  pine  wood  are  the  little  oak  seedlings 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


184  JOURNAL  [Oct.  28 

which  I  have  described,  also,  in  the  more  open  parts, 
little  oaks  three  to  six  feet  high,  but  unnoticed,  and 
perhaps  some  other  hardwood  trees.  The  pines  are  cut, 
and  the  oaks,  etc.,  soon  fill  the  space,  for  there  is  nothing 
else  ready  to  grow  there. 

Are  not  the  most  exclusively  pine  woods  new  woods, 
i.  c,  those  which  have  recently  sprung  up  in  open  land, 
where  oaks  do  not  begin  a  forest  ?  It  may  be  that  where 
evergreens  most  prevail  in  our  woods,  there  at  the  date  of 
their  springing  up  the  earth  was  most  bare* 

P.  M.  —  To  Lincoln. 

Do  I  not  see  tree  sparrows  ? 

I  see  little  larches  two  to  six  feet  high  in  the  meadow 
on  the  north  side  the  Turnpike,  six  to  twelve  rods  from 
Everett's  seed-bearing  ones.  The  seed  was  evidently 
blown  from  tliese. 

There  is  quite  a  dense  birch  wood  in  the  field  north  of 
the  Cut  on  the  Turnpike  hill. 

See  much  cat-tail  whose  down  has  recently  burst  and 
shows  white  on  the  south  side  of  the  heads.  The  Polyg- 
onum avicuiare  is  in  bloom  as  freshly  and  abundantly 
in  some  places  as  ever  I  saw  it.  Those  great  tufts  of 
sedge  in  the  meadows  are  quite  brown  and  withered.  I 
suppose  they  have  been  so  since  the  beginning  of  the 
month. 

Smith's  black  walnuts  are  about  half  of  them  fallen. 

Measure  the  chestnut  stump  near  the  brook  northeast 
of  the  old  Brooks  Tavern  on  Asa  White's  land.  Its 
height  from  the  ground  will  average  but  twenty  inches. 
Measured  one  way,  its  diameter  is  six  feet  nine  inches, 
and  at  right  angles  with  this,  eight  feet  five  inches.    Its 


Digitized  byCjOOQlC 


1860]      A  LARGE  CHESTNUT  STUMP        185 

average  diameter  seven  feet  seven  inches.  You  might 
add  three  to  four  feet  more  for  the  whole  stump 
above  ground.  Beginning  at  the  outside,  I  count  one 
hundred  and  two  rings  distinctly  and  am  then  fif- 
teen inches  from  the  apparent  centre  of  the  tree,  for 
the  middle  is  mostly  rotted  and  gone.  Measuring  back 
fifteen  inches  and  counting  the  rings,  I  get  thirty-nine, 
which,  added  to  one  hundred  and  two,  equals  one  hun- 
dred and  forty-one  for  the  probable  age  of  the  tree. 
This  tree  had  grown  very  fast  till  the  last  fifty  years  of 
its  existence,  but  since  comparatively  slowly.  It  had 
grown  nine  inches  in  the  last  forty-nine  years,  or  one 
seventh  [sic]  of  an  inch  in  a  year,  but  fifteen  inches  in 
the  previous  forty,  or  three  eighths  of  an  inch  in  a  year. 
There  may  possibly  have  been  two  shoots  or  trees 
grown  together,  yet  I  think  not.  I  measured  this  June 
1st,  1852,  and  it  had  then  been  cut,  as  I  remember, 
but  a  short  time,  —  a  winter,  perhaps  two  winters, 
before.  This  would  carry  its  origin  back  to  about  1710. 
Probably  chestnuts  did  not  grow  so  large  in  the  primi- 
tive woods,  and  this  was  a  forest  tree,  which,  as  it  stood 
near  the  edge  of  the  meadow,  was  left  standing.  Another 
much  smaller  was  cut  apparently  at  the  same  time  near 
by.  Having  light  and  air  and  room,  it  grew  larger  than 
it  would  have  done  if  its  neighbors  had  not  been  cut. 

I  also  measured  the  stumps  of  the  two  great  chestnuts 
which  were  cut  on  Weston's  land  south  of  the  pond 
some  five  or  six  years  ago. 

They  are  cut  low,  some  eight  or  nine  inches  above 
ground.  The  southeastemmost  one  measures  four  feet 
in  diameter  and  has  about  eighty  rings  only  (I  estimate 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


186  JOURNAL  [Oct.  28 

the  first  five  or  six,  the  heart  or  core  being  gone).  The 
other  is  four  and  five  twelfths  feet  in  diameter  and  has 
seventy-three  rings  only.  Or,  putting  both  together, 
you  have  an  average  growth  of  about  a  third  of  an  inch 
in  a  year.  These  were  as  large  as  any  I  know  standing 
hereabouts  except  the  Strawberry  Hill  one,  and  yet  it 
seems  they  [were]  only  some  eighty  vears  old.  Another, 
half  a  mile  east  of  there,  cut  perhaps  some  dozen  years 
ago,  was  twenty-three  inches  in  diameter  and  had  sixty- 
three  rings,  and  I  saw  one  which  had  grown  faster  than 
any  of  the  above.  Yet  another  stiimp  near  the  last  on  the 
high  woodland  near  the  pond  was  but'  just  two  feet  in 
diaineter  an^  had  one  hundred  and  one  rings  distinct 
to  the  very  core,  and  so  fine  there  I  think  it  was  a  seedling. 
From  this  sprouts  had  grown  some  fifteen  years  ago 
and  [had  been]  cut  last  winter  on  account  of  a  fire,  and 
fresh  shoots  several  feet  high  had  put  out  from  the  last. 
The  one  that'  had  grown  slowly  was  soundest  at  the 
core.  None  of  the  three  largest  stumps  described  had 
sprouts  from  them.  Is  not  the  very  rapid  growth  and  the 
hollow  or  roffen  core  one  sign  of  a  sprout  ?  We  make  a 
great  noise  going  through  the  fallen  leaves  in  the  woods 
and  wood-paths  now,  so  that  we  cannot  hear  other 
sounds,  as  of  birds  or  other  people.  It  reminds  me  of 
the  tumult  of  the  waves  dashing  against  each  other  or 
your  boat.  This  is  the  dash  we  hear  as  we  sail  the  woods. 
Cut  a  limb  of  a  cedar  (near  the  Irishman's  shanty- 
site  at  Flint's  Pond)  some  two  inches  thick  and  three 
and  a  half  feet  from  the  ground.  It  had  about  forty-one 
rings.  Adding  ten,  you  have  say  fifty  years  for  the  age 
of  the  tree.    It  was  one  foot  in  diameter  at  one  foot 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  PITCH   PINE  WOOD  187 

above  ground  and  twenty  or  more  feet  high,  standing 
in  the  ydung  wood.    A  little  cedar  five  feet  high  near  it 
had  some  fifteen  to  seventeen  rings.    See  a  great  many" 
chestnut  sprouts  full  six  feet  high  and  more  andean  inch 
or  more  thick  the  first  year. 

Aaron's-rod  has  minute  chaffy  seeds,  now  ripe,  which 
by  their  very  lightness  could  be  blown  along  the  high- 
ways. 

Oct.  29.  P.  M.  —  To  Eb.  Hubbard's  old  black  birdi 
hill. 

Henry  Shattuck's  is  a  new  pitch  pine  wpod,  say  thirty 
years  old.  The  western,  or  greater,  part  contains  not  a 
single  seed-bearing  white  pine.  It  is  d  reniarkable 
proof  of  my  theory,  for  it  contaips  .tbbusabds  of  little 
white  pines  but  scarcely  one  little  pitch  pine.  It  is  also 
well  stocked  with  minute  oaf  seedlings.  ^It  is  a  dense 
wood,  say  a  dozen  rods  wide  by  three  or  four  times  as 
long,  running  east  and  west,  with  an  oak  wood  on  the 
north,  from  which  the  squirrels  brought  the  acorns. 
A  strip  of  nearly  the  same  width  of  the  pitch  pine  was 
cut  apparently  within  ^  year  on  the  south  (a  part  of  the 
above),  and  has  just  been  harrowed  and  sown  with  rye, 
and  still  it  is  all  dotted  over^with  the  Uttle  oak  seedlings 
between  the  [stumps],  which  are  perhaps  unnoticed  by 
Shattuck,  but  if  he  would  keep  his  plow  and  fire  out  he 
would  still  have  a  pretty  green  patch  thel^  by  next  fall. 
A  thousand  little  red  flags  (changed  oak  leaves)  already 
wave  over  the  green  rye  amid  the  stumps.  The  farmer 
stumbles  over  th^se  in  his  walk,  and  sweats  while  he 
endeavors  to  clear  the  land  of  them,  and  yet  wonders 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


188  JOURNAL  [Oct.  29 

how  oaks  ever  succeed  to  pines,  as  if  he  did  not  consider 
what  these  are.  Where  these  pines  are  dense  they  are 
slender  and  tall.  On  the  edge  or  in  open  land  they  are 
more  stout  and  spreading. 

Again,  as  day  before  yesterday,  sitting  on  the  edge 
of  a  pine  wood,  I  see  a  jay  fly  to  a  white  oak  half  a 
dozen  rods  oflF  in  the  pasture,  and,  gathering  an  acom 
from  the  ground,  hammer  away  at  it  under  its  foot  on  a 
limb  of  the  oak,  with  an  awkward  and  rapid  seesaw  or 
teetering  motion,  it  has  to  lift  its  head  so  high  to  acquire 
the  requisite  momentum.  The  jays  scold  about  almost 
every  white  oak  tree,  since  we  hinder  their  coming  to  it. 

At  some  of  the  white  oaks  visited  on  the  11th,  where 
the  acorns  were  so  thick  on  the  ground  and  trees,  I  now 
find  them  perhaps  nearly  half  picked  up,  yet  perhaps 
little  more  than  two  tliirds  spoiled.  The  good  appear 
to  be  all  sprouted  now.  There  are  certainly  many  more 
sound  ones  here  than  at  Beck  Stow's  and  Hubbard's 
Grove,  and  it  looks*  as  if  the  injury  had  been  done  by 
frost,  but  perhaps  some  of  it  was  done  by  the  very  heavy 
rains  of  September  alone. 

Yesterday  and  to-day  I  have  walked  rapidly  through 
extensive  chestnut  woods  without  seeing  what  I  thought 
was  a  seedling  chestnut,  yet  I  can  soon  find  them  in  our 
Concord  pines  a  quarter  or  half  a  mile  from  the  chest- 
nut woods.  Several  have  expressed  their  surprise  to  me 
that  they  cannot  find  a  seedling  chestnut  to  transplant. 
I  think  that  [it]  is  with  them  precisely  as  with  the  oaks; 
not  only  a  seedling  is  more  diflBcult  to  distinguish  in  a 
chestnut  wood,  but  it  is  really  far  more  rare  there  than 
in  the  adjacent  pine,  mixed,  and  oak  woods.  After  con- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  OLD  STUMPS  189 

siderable  experience  in  searching  for  these  and  seedling 
oaks,  I  have  learned  to  neglect  the  chestnut  and  oak 
woods  and  go  only  to  the  neighboring  woods  of  a  diflFer- 
ent  species  for  them.    Only  that  course  will  pay. 

On  the  side  of  E.  Hubbard's  hill  I  see  an  old  chestnut 
stump  some  two  feet  in  diameter  and  neariy  two  feet 
high,  and  its  outside  and  form  well  kept,  yet  all  the 
inside  gone;  and  from  this  shot  up  four  sprouts  in  a 
square  around  it,  which  were  cut  down  seven  or  eight 
years  ago.  Their  rings  number  forty-six,  and  they  are 
quite  sound,  so  that  the  old  stump  was  cut  some  fifty- 
three  years  ago.  This  is  the  oldest  stump  of  whose  age 
I  am  certain.  Hence  I  have  no  doubt  that  there  are 
many  stumps  left  in  this  town  which  were  cut  in  the 
last  century.  I  am  surprised  to  find  on  this  hill  (cut 
some  seven  or  eight  years  ago)  many  remarkably  old 
stumps  wonderfully  preserved,  especially  on  the  north 
side  the  hill,  —  walnuts,  white  oak  and  other  oaks, 
and  black  birch.  One  white  oak  is  eighteen  and  a  half 
inches  in  diameter  and  has  one  hundred  and  forty-three 
rings.  Tliis  is  very  one-sided  in  its  growth,  the  centre 
being  just  four  inches  from  the  north  side,  or  thirty-six 
rings  to  an  inch.  Of  course  I  counted  the  other  side. 
Another,  close  by,  gave  one  hundred  and  forty-one  rings, 
another  white  oak  fifteen  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter 
had  one  hundred  and  fifty-five  rings.  It  has  so  smooth 
(sawed  oflF)  and  solid,  almost  a  polished  or  marble-like, 
surface  that  I  could  not  at  first  tell  what  kind  of  wood 
it  was.*  Another  white  oak  the  same  as  last  in  rings, 
i.  e.  one  hundred  and  fifty-five,  twenty-four  inches  [in] 
*  Was  it  not  a  walnut? 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


190  JOURNAL  [Oct.  20 

diameter.  All  these  were  sound  to  the  very  core,  so  that 
I  could  see  the  first  circles,  and  I  suspect  that  they  were 
seedlings. 

The  smaller,  but  oldest  ones  had  grown  very  slowly 
at  first,  and  yet  more  slowly  at  last,  but  after  some  sixty- 
five  years  they  had  then  grown  much  faster  for  about 
fifteen  years,  and  then  grew  slower  and  slower  to  the 
last.  The  rings  were  exceedingly  close  together  near 
the  outside,  yet  not  proportionably  diflBcult  to  count. 
For  aught  that  appeared,  they  might  have  continued 
to  grow  a  century  longer.  The  stumps  are  far  apart, 
so  that  this  formed  an  open  grove,  and  that  probably 
made  the  wood  sounder  and  more  durable.  On  the 
south  slope  many  white  pines  had  been  cut  about  forty- 
six  years  ago,  or  when  the  chestnut  was,  amid  the  oaks. 
I  suppose  that  these  were  seedlings,  and  perhaps  the 
hill  was  cleared  soon  after  the  settlement  of  the  town, 
and  after  a  while  pines  sprang  up  in  the  open  land,  and 
seedling  oaks  under  the  pines,  and,  the  latter  being  cut 
near  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century,  those  oaks 
sprang  up,  with  or  without  pines,  but  all  but  these  were 
cut  down  when  they  were  about  sixty  years  old. 

If  these  are  seedlings,  then  seedlings  make  much  the 
best  timber.  I  should  say  that  the  pasture  oaks  gen- 
erally must  be  seedlings  on  account  of  their  age,  being 
part  of  the  primitive  wood. 

I  suspect  that  sprouts,  like  the  chestnut,  for  example, 
may  grow  very  rapidly,  and  make  large  trees  in  com- 
paratively few  years,  but  they  will  be  decaying  [  ?  ]  as 
fast  at  the  core  as  they  are  growing  at  the  circumference. 
The  stumps  of  chestnuts,  especially  sprouts,  are  very 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  PASTURE   OAKS  191 

shaky.  It  is  with  men  as  with  trees;  you  must  grow 
slowly  to  last  long.  The  oldest  of  these  oaks  began 
their  existence  about  1697. 

I  doubt  if  there  were  any  as  old  trees  in  our  primitive 
wood  as  stood  in  this  town  fifty  years  ago.  The  health- 
iest of  the  primitive  wood,  having  at  length  more  room, 
light,  and  air,  probably  grew  larger  than  its  ancestors. 

Some  of  the  black  birch  stumps  gave  about  one 
hundred  rings. 

The  pasture  oak  which  Sted  Buttrick  cut  some  seven 
or  eight  years  ago,  northeast  of  this,  was,  as  near  as 
I  could  tell,  —  one  third  was  calculation,  —  some  one 
hundred  years  old  only,  though  larger  than  any  of  these. 

The  fine  chips  which  are  left  on  the  centre  of  a  large 
stump  preserve  it  moist  there,  and  rapidly  hasten  its 
decay. 

The  site  of  the  last-named  pasture  oak  was  easily 
discovered,  by  a  very  large  open  grass-sward  where  no 
sweet-fern,  lambkill,  huckleberry,  and  brakes  grew, 
as  they  did  almost  everjrwhere  else.  This  may  be  be- 
cause of  the  cattle  assembling  under  the  oak,  and  so 
killing  the  bushes  and  at  the  same  time  manuring  the 
ground  for  grass. 

There  is  more  chestnut  in  the  northern  part  of  the 
town  than  I  was  aware  of.  The  first  large  wood  north 
of  Ponkawtasset  is  oak  and  chestnut.  East  of  my  house. 

Oct,  30.    P.  M.  —  To  Tarbell  pitch  pines,  etc. 
Quite  a  sultry,  cloudy  afternoon,  —  hot  walking  in 
woods  and  lowland  where  there  is  no  air. 

J.  Hosmer  cut  off  the   northernmost   part   of  his 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


192  JOURNAL  [Oct.  SO 

pitch  pine  between  roads,  i,  e,  next  the  factory  road, . 
last  winter.  Here  was  a  remarkable  example  of  little 
white  pines  mider  pitch  pines  with  scarcely  any  little 
pitch  pines.  He  has  accordingly  cut  off  all  the  pitch 
pines  —  and  they  are  some  thirty-five  years  old  —  and 
left  the  white  pines,  now  on  an  average  five  to  eight 
feet  high  and  forming  already  a  pretty  dense  wood 
(E.  Wood  is  doing  the  same  thing  now  opposite  the 
Colbum  place),  a  valuable  and  salable  woodland, 
while  a  great  many  little  oaks,  birches,  black  cherries, 
etc.,  are  springing  up  in  their  midst;  so  that  it  may 
finally  be  a  mixed  wood,  if  the  pines  do  not  overshadow 
it  too  quickly.  Yet  there  were  only  three  or  four  seed- 
bearing  white  pines  in  the  grove,  —  or  as  big  as  the 
pitch  pines  were.  The  white  pines  left  are  as  thick  as 
the  pitch  pines  were  under  which  they  sprang  up; 
quite  dense  enough  to  grow.  I  am  more  and  more 
struck  by  the  commonness  of  this  phenomenon  of 
seedling  white  pines  under  older  pitch  pines  and  the 
rareness  with  which  pitch  pines  spring  up  under  older 
pitch  pines.  Yet,  going  to  the  open  land  on  east  side 
of  the  wood,  I  find  that  it  is  mainly  the  little  pitch  pines 
that  are  spreading  into  the  field  there  and  extending  the 
wood, some  a  dozen  rods  from  its  edge  in  the  grass; 
and  their  relative  proportion  is  reversed,  i.  e,,  there 
are  fifty  to  one  hundred  little  pitch  pines  here  to  one 
white  pine.  He  had  also  cut  off  some,  a  few,  birches, 
and  their  sprouts  had  come  up,  as  well  as  seedlings. 

The  oak  seedlings  between  the  young  pitch  pines 
were  manifestly  springing  up  with  new  vigor,  though 
many  may  finally  be  choked  by  the  white  pines.   Omit- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        GROWTH   OF  PITCH   PINES  193 

ting  such  as  were  of  the  character  of  sprouts,  though 
not  cut  (i.  e.,  had  shot  up  from  old  roots  to  three  feet 
high  merely  on  account  of  the  influx  of  light  and  air), 
I  measured  this  year's  growth  of  the  first  four  which 
were  under  a  foot  high,  here  where  the  pitch  pines 
had  beeji  cut,  and  found  it  to  average  five  and  a  half 
inches.  The  growth  of  [the]  first  four  in  the  adjacent 
pitch  pine  wood  not  cut  averaged  seven  and  a  half.  As 
may  be  seen,  this  was  not  nearly  fair  enough  to  the 
partially  cleared  part,  for  I  should  have  included  the 
higher  shoots. 

The  higher  parts  of  this  lot  are  cladonia  land.  I 
measured  the  diameter  of  several  of  the  pitch  pine 
stumps  and  counted  the  rings,  with  this  result:  — 


Diameter  (exclusive  of  bark) 

Rings 

7J  inches 

29 

n 

33 

6 

40 

6i 

33 

6 

40 

8i 

35 

7 

30 

7)48} 

7)240 

7 

34 

That  is,  they  averaged  seven  inches  in  diameter  (or 
eight  with  bark)  and  were  thirty-four  years  old.  Had 
grown  (68)7.0(.10)  about  one  tenth  of  an  inch  a  year 
from  the  centre. 

White  pines  will  find  their  way  up  between  pitch 
pines  if  they  are  not  very  large  and  exceedingly  dense, 
but  pitch  pines  will  not  grow  up  under  pitch  pines. 

I  see  nowadays  in  the  pitch  pine  woods  countless 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


194  JOURNAL  [Oct.  30 

white  toadstools  which  have  recently  been  devoured 
and  broken  in  pieces  and  left  on  the  ground  and  oc- 
casionally on  the  branches  or  forks  of  trees,  no  doubt 
by  the  squirrels.  They  appear  to  make  a  considerable 
part  of  their  food  at  this  season. 

See  a  small  copper  butterfly. 

In  what  I  have  called  the  Loring  lot,  next  west  of 
Hosmer's  pitch  pine  on  the  back  road,  though  far  the 
greater  part  numerically  is  still  shrub  oak,  there  is  now 
a  considerable  growth  of  yoimg  oaks  rising  above  the 
shrub  oaks.  These  oaks,  as  far  as  I  observe,  are  almost, 
if  not  quite,  all  sprouts  from  small  stumps  which  were 
unnoticed  at  first,  and  there  are  also  a  very  few  seed- 
ling white  and  other  oaks  no  higher  than  the  shrub 
oaks;  i.  e.,  though  you  may  think  his  oak  sprout-land  all 
shrub  oak,  it  probably  is  not,  as  will  appear  when  the 
other  kinds  rise  above  the  shrubs.  Probably  the  shrub 
oaks  can  bear  exposure  when  young  better  than  the 
nobler  oaks,  and  if  the  squirrels  plant  other  acorns 
under  them,  —  which  may  be  doubted,  —  then  it  will 
turn  out  that  they  serve  as  nurses  to  the  others. 

I  measure  amid  these  young  oaks  a  white  pine  stump. 


Diameter  (exclusive  of  bark) 

Rings 

13i  inches 

35 

Qother    28 

52 

U 

46 

3)65J 

183 

22 

44 

Average  growth  one  half  inch  a  year  at  the  level  at 
which  stumps  are  sawed. 

This  lot  is  now  as  exclusively  oak  as  it  was  pines 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE  LORING  LOT  195 

before.  You  must  search  to  find  a  few  little  white  pines 
scattered  in  it.  But  why,  if  there  are  so  many  little 
white  pines  under  the  adjacent  pitch  pines,  which  are 
left  when  the  pitch  pines  are  cut,  were  there  no  more 
to  be  left  under  the  pitch  pine  part  (along  the  road) 
of  this  lot  ?  I  think  of  no  reason,  unless  the  pitch  pines 
on  this  lot  were  too  old  and  dense.  Again,  I  notice  that 
Hosmer's  pitch  pines  have  not  spread  west  at  all  into 
this  clearing,  but  only  east  into  the  grass  ground. 

Into  this  Loring  lot  years  ago  the  squirrels  brought  v 
acorns,  and  hence  the  oaks  which  now  cover  it.  Also 
the  wind  blew  its  own  seeds  into  an  open  strip  across 
the  road,  and  a  dense  pitch  and  white  pine  wood  sprang 
up  there.  Already,  the  Loring  lot  having  been  cut  seven 
or  eight  years,  the  squirrels  are  carrying  the  shrub  oak 
acorns  from  it  into  that  pine  strip,  and  the  pine  seed  from 
the  most  forward  of  that  strip  is  blowing  back  into  the 
shrub  oak  land. 

Another  advantage  the  shrub  oak  has  over  other 
oaks  [is]  that  it  gets  to  fruit  so  quickly  —  certainly  in 
three  or  four  years  after  the  pines  are  cut  —  and  then 
bears  so  profusely. 

See  a  great  flock  of  blackbirds,  probably  grackles. 

Examine  Tarbell's  pitch  pine  grove.  This  is  all  of 
one  age  and  very  dense.  The  largest  trees  on  the  north 
side,  as  estimated  by  sawing  a  branch,  are  twenty- 
eight  to  thirty  years  old.  Tarbell  says  this  grove  came 
up  in  1826  on  land  which  had  been  burnt  over,  —  in 
fact  open  land.  It  is  so  dense  that,  though  it  has  been 
thoroughly  trimmed  up  and  is  only  a  dozen  or  fifteen 
rods  wide,  you  cannot  see  through  it  in  some  directions. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


196  JOURNAL  [Oct.  30 

About  as  dense  a  pitch  pine  grove  as  I  know.  It  is 
twenty  rods  from  the  nearest  wood  on  one  side  and  five 
times  as  far  from  any  other,  and  yet  it  is  well  planted 
with  seedling  oaks.  Looking  hastily  to  where  they  are 
most  numerous,  I  counted  ten  within  fifteen  square 
feet,  but  only  five  pitch  pines  within  any  equal  area; 
i.  e,  there  were  twice  as  many  oaks  as  large  pines  there. 

This  wood  also  proves  my  theory  of  little  white  pines 
in  large  pitch  pines.  There  is  not  a  seed-bearing  white 
pine,  or  one  six  feet  high,  in  the  wood,  nor  less  than 
twenty  rods  from  it,  and  yet  there  is  a  thriving  little 
white  pine  some  two  feet  high  at  every  rod  or  two 
within  this  wood,  and  though  not  very  numerous,  they 
are  conspicuously  more  numerous  and  thriving  than 
the  pitch  pines,  yet  on  the  edge  the  little  pitch  pines 
were  as  much  more  numerous  than  the  white. 

Having  seen  this  fall  a  great  many  pitch  pine  twigs 
which  had  been  cut  oflF  and  dropped  under  the  trees 
by  squirrels,  I  tried  the  other  night  while  in  bed  to  ac- 
count for  it.  I  began  by  referring  it  to  their  necessities, 
and,  remembering  my  own  experience,  I  said  then  it 
was  done  either  for  food,  shelter,  clothing,  or  fuel, 
but  throwing  out  the  last  two,  which  they  do  not  use, 
it  was  either  for  food  or  shelter.  But  I  never  see  these 
twigs  used  in  their  nests.  Hence  I  presume  it  was  for 
food,  and  as  all  that  I  know  them  to  eat  on  the  pitch 
pine  is  its  seeds,  my  swift  conclusion  was  that  they  cut  oflF 
these  twigs  in  order  to  come  at  the  cones  and  also  to 
make  them  more  portable.  I  am  to-day  convinced  of 
this,  —  for  I  have  been  looking  after  it  for  a  day  or  two. 
As  usual,  the  ground  under  this  grove  is  quite  strewn 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      SQUIRRELS  AND  PINE  SEED         197 

with  the  twigs,  but  here  is  one  eleven  inches  long  and 
nearly  half  an  inch  thick  cut  oflF  close  below  two  closed 
cones,  one  cone-stem  also  being  partly  cut.  Also,  three 
or  four  rods  west  from  this  grove,  in  open  land,  I  see 
three  twigs  which  have  been  dropped  close  together. 
One  is  just  two  feet  long  and  cut  off  where  half  an  inch 
thick  and  more  than  one  foot  below  three  cones  (two 
on  one  branch  and  one  on  another),  and  the  cones 
are  left.  Another  is  still  larger,  and  the  other  smaller, 
but  their  cones  are  gone.  The  greater  part  of  the  twigs 
have  been  cut  off  above  the  cones,  —  mere  plumes. 

So  even  the  squirrels  carry  and  spread  the  pine  seed 
far  over  the  fields.  I  suspect  that  they  bury  these 
cones  like  nuts.  I  have  seen  the  cones  collected  ready 
to  be  carried  off,  where  they  did  not  live.  It  is  remark- 
able to  consider  how  rudely  they  strip  and  spoil  the  trees. 
It  is  remarkable  how  they  carried  some  of  these  great 
twigs  with  their  burden  of  cones.* 

The  fact  that  the  lower  limbs  of  pines  growing  within 
a  wood  always  die  shows  how  much  they  depend  on 
light  and  air.    They  are  only  a  green  spiring  top. 

Measure  one  of  Tarbell's  black  birch  stumps:  23 
inches  [in]  diameter  (exclusive  of  bark),  60  rings.  A  log 
from  a  different  one:  21  inches,  71  (?)  rings.  A  white 
oak  stump  near  by:  15  inches,  90  rings  (on  brow 
of  bank).  A  black  (?)  oak  stump:  32  inches  [in] 
diameter,  84  rings. 

Examine  a  dozen  white  pines  in  a  field,  and  conclude 
from  these  that  they  begin  to  grow  faster  the  fifth  or 
sixth  year,  counting  by  the  whorls  of  branches. 
*  Vide  Hosmer's  gray  squirrel. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


198  JOURNAL  [Oct.  30 

J.  Hosmer  cut  off  his  little  pitch  pine  grove  west  of 
Clamshell,  and  left  the  single  large  old  pine  which 
seeded  it  to  do  him  the  same  service  again;  and  here 
now,  where  for  the  second  time  (since)  he  has  sown 
winter-rye,  I  see  the  inefiFectual  oak  sprouts  uplifting  a 
few  colored  leaves  still  and  blushing  for  him. 

The  squirrels  have  no  notion  of  starving  in  a  hard 
winter,  and  therefore  they  are  unceasingly  employed 
in  the  fall  in  foraging.  Every  thick  wood,  especially 
evergreens,  is  their  storehouse  against  necessity,  and 
they  pack  it  as  thickly  as  they  can  with  nuts  and  seeds 
of  all  kinds.  The  squirrel  which  you  see  at  this  season  * 
running  so  glibly  along  the  fence  with  his  tail  waving 
over  his  head,  with  frequent  pauses  on  a  post  or  stone, 
which  you  watch,  perhaps,  for  twenty  or  thirty  rods, 
has  probably  a  nut  or  two  in  his  mouth  which  he  is 
conveying  to  yonder  thicket. 

Evidently  a  great  deal  depends  on  the  locality  and 
other  conditions  of  a  stump  to  aflFect  its  durability.  The 
oak  stump  at  Clamshell  cut  some  twenty  years  since 
barely  shows  a  trace  of  the  axe,  while  the  chestnut  stump 
on  Hubbard's  hill,  cut  more  than  fifty  years  ago,  is  much 
better  preserved. 

Oct,  31.    P.  M.  —  To  Wheeler's  artificial  pine  wood. 

Exclusive  and  dense  white  pine  woods  are  not  nearly 
so  common  in  this  town  as  the  sanae  kind  of  pitch  pine 
woods.  They  are  more  likely  to  have  oaks  in  them. 
There  is  a  dense  birch  wood  in  Withercll  Vale. 

Among  old  stumps  I  have  not  named  fhose  white  pine 
ones  used  as  fences  with  their  roots.   I  think  that  some 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE  FOREST-PLANTERS  199 

of  these  must  be  older  than  any  left  in  the  ground.  I 
remember  some  on  the  Comer  road,  which  apparently 
have  not  changed  for  more  than  thirty  years,  and  are 
said  to  be  ninety  years  old.  Lying  thus  high  and  dry, 
they  are  almost  indestructible,  and  I  can  still  easily 
count  the  rings  of  many  of  these.  I  count  one  hundred 
and  twenty-six  rings  on  one  this  afternoon,  and  who 
knows  but  it  is  a  hundred  years  since  it  was  cut  ?  They 
decay  much  faster  left  upright  in  the  ground  than  lying 
on  their  sides  on  the  surface,  supposing  it  open  land  in 
both  cases. 

Perhaps  these  great  pine  roots  which  grew  in  a  swamp 
were  provided  with  some  peculiar  quality  by  which 
to  resist  the  influence  of  moisture  and  so  endure  the 
changes  of  the  weather. 

Yes,  these  dense  and  stretching  oak  forests,  whose 
withered  leaves  now  redden  and  rustle  on  the  hills  for 
many  a  New  England  mile,  were  all  planted  by  tlie  labor 
of  animals.  For  after  some  weeks  of  close  scrutiny  I 
cannot  avoid  the  conclusion  that  our  modem  oak  woods 
sooner  or  later  spring  up  from  an  acom,  not  where  it 
has  fallen  from  its  tree,  for  that  is  the  exception,  but 
where  it  has  been  dropped  or  placed  by  an  animal. 
Consider  what  a  vast  work  these  forest^planters  are 
doing! 

I  do  not  state  the  facts  exactly  in  the  order  in  which 
they  were  observed,  but  select  out  of  very  numerous  ob- 
servations extended  over  a  series  of  years  the  most  im- 
portant ones,  dud  describe  them  in  their  natural  order.* 

*  [Evidently  written  for  his  lecture  on  the  Succession  of  Forest 
Trees.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


200  JOURNAL  [Oct.  31 

So  far  as  our  noblest  hardwood  forests  are  concerned, 
the  animals,  especially  squirrels  and  jays,  are  our  greatest 
and  almost  only  benefactors.  It  is  to  them  that  we  owe 
this  gift.  It  is  not  in  vain  that  the  squirrels  Uve  in  or 
about  every  forest  tree,  or  hollow  log,  and  every  wall 
and  heap  of  stones. 

Looked  at  the  white  pine  grove  set  out  by  the  father 
of  Francis  Wheeler  some  twenty-two  or  three  years  ago 
southwest  of  his  house.  They  are  in  three  or  four  irreg- 
ular rows  some  eighteen  rods  long  by  four  wide,  — 
some  one  hundred  trees,  covering  half  an  acre  of  sandy 
hillside.  Probably  not  so  many  trees  as  Emerson's,  but 
making  more  show.  They  are  trimmed  up.  There  are 
neither  small  white  nor  pitch  pines  beneath  them,  but  I 
see  that  the  seeds  of  the  pitch  pines  which  grow  below 
them  have  been  blown  through  this  grove  and  come  up 
thickly  along  its  outer  edge. 

Look  at  a  pure  strip  of  old  white  pine  wood  on  the  hill- 
side west  of  this.  There  are  no  little  white  pines  coming 
up  under  them,  but  plenty  of  them  in  the  open  hollows 
around  and  under  its  edge.  This  I  commonly  notice. 
Whit^  pines,  it  is  true^  may  come  up  in  the  more  open 
parts  of  any  wood,  whether  a  pine  or  oak  or  mixed  wood, 
in  more  open  places  caused  by  cutting,  for  instance; 
but  the  pitch  pine  requires  much  more  of  an  opening. 

I  see  by  the  road  east  of  White  Pond  a  large  white 
pine  wood  with  some  oaks  in  it.  There  are  no  little  white 
pines  where  it  is  dense,  but  one  rod  oflF  across  the  road 
eastward  there  is  a  dense  row  concealing  the  lower  rail 
(many  quite  under  it)  for  many  rods,  —  the  only  place 
where  they  are  allowed  to  grow  there. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THRESHING  201 

Many  a  man's  field  has  a  dense  border  of  pitch  pines 
which  strayed  into  it  when  the  adjacent  woods  were  of 
that  species,  though  they  are  now  hardwood. 

Consider  what  a  demand  for  arrowheads  there  must 
be,  that  the  surface  of  the  earth  should  be  thus  sprin- 
kled with  them,  —  the  arrowhead  and  all  the  disposition 
it  implies  toward  both  man  and  brute.  There  they  lie, 
pointed  still,  making  part  of  the  sands  of  almost  every 
field. 

I  cut  two  shrub  oaks  (in  different  places)  which  have 
respectively  ten  and  twenty  rings.  The  last  was  a  large 
and  old  one  in  a  hedge.  ^ 

I  first  noticed  the  pitch  pine  twigs  cut  off  by  squirrels 
the  16th.  Think  how  busy  they  were  about  that  time  in 
every  pitch  pine  grove  all  over  the  State,  cutting  off  the 
twigs  and  collecting  the  cones!  While  the  farmer  is 
digging  his  potatoes  and  gathering  his  com  he  little 
thinks  of  this  harvest  of  pine  cones  which  the  squirrel  is 
gathering  in  the  neighboring  woods  still  more  sedu- 
lously than  himself. 

I  saw  on  the  28th,  close  by  the  stump  of  the  eastern- 
most big  chestnut  at  Flint's  Pond,  the  Phallits  impvdicus. 

I  hear  the  sound  of  the  flail  in  M.  Miles's  bam,  and 
gradually  draw  near  to  it  from  the  woods,  thinking  many 
things.  I  find  that  the  thresher  is  a  Haynes  of  Sudbury, 
and  he  complains  of  the  hard  work  and  a  lame  back. 
Indeed,  he  cannot  stand  up  straight.  So  all  is  not  gold 
that  glitters.  This  sound  is  not  so  musical  after  I  have 
withdrawn.  It  was  as  well  to  have  heard  this  music  afar 
off.  He  complains  also  that  the  weather  is  not  fit  for  his 
»  Vide  [p.  208]. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


202  JOURNAL  [Oct.  31 

work,  —  that  it  ie  so  muggy  that  he  cannot  dry  the 
sheaves,  and  the  grain  will  not  fly  out  when  struck.  The 
floor,  too,  is  uneven,  and  he  pointed  out  one  board  more 
prominent  on  which  he  had  broken  two  or  three  swingles. 
He  thought  that  there  were  krger  trees  in  Sudbury, 
on  what  was  John  Hunt's  land,  now  occupied  by 
Thompson,  near  the  old  store,  than  in  Inches  Woods. 
Said  there  was  a  tree  by  the  roadside  on  the  farm  of  the 
late  William  Read  in  West  Acton  which  nobody  there- 
abouts knew  the  name  of,  but  he  had  been  South,  and 
knew  it  to  be  a  China-berry  tree  planted  by  a  robin,  for 
they  are  very  fond  of  its  fruit. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


IV 

NOVEMBER,  1860 

(iET.  43) 

Nov.  1.   2  P.  BT.  —  To  Tonimy  Wheeler  wood-lot. 

A  perfect  Indian-summer  day,  and  wonderfully  warm. 
72  +  at  1  p.  M.  and  probably  warmer  at  two. 

The  butterflies  are  out  again,  —  probably  some  new 
broods.  I  see  the  common  yellow  and  two  Vanessa 
Antiopa,  and  yellow-winged  grasshoppers  with  blackish 
edges. 

A  striped  snake  basks  in  the  sun  amid  dry  leaves. 
Very  much  gossamer  on  the  withered  grass  is  shimmer- 
ing in  the  fields,  and  flocks  of  it  are  sailing  in  the  air. 

Measure  some  pine  stumps  on  Tommy  Wheeler's 
land,  about  that  now  frosty  hollow,  cut  as  I  judge  from 
sprouts  four  years  ago. 

First  the  pitch  pine:  — 

1  is  18}  inches  [in]  diameter  and  has  145  (?)  rings 

2  18        •*  "  "    1S7 
S      20        "                   "  ••    128 

4  21        -  "  "    148 

5  21      .  -  "  •'140 

6  22}      -  "  "    160 +  4  (Counted  the  last 

64  at  home) 

7  20        "  "  "   167  or  168  (?) 


7  )141i  7)1026+4 

Average  20  Average  147+1,  or  148 

That  is,  they  all  together  averaged  in  growth  from 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


204  JOURNAL  [Nov.  1 

first  to  last  about  a  fifteenth  of  an  inch  in  a  year.  But 
they  grew  very  slowly  indeed  for  the  last  fifty  or  more 
years.  They  did  nearly  half  (?)  their  growing  in  the  first 
third  of  their  existence.  For  example,  (I  measure  now 
on  that  side  where  I  counted,  i.  e,  the  broadest,  so  that 
my  figures  are  not  absolutely  but  relatively  true),  — 

No.  2  grew  5  inches  in  first  82  years 

5  "  4i      *'  ''     50  and  3f  m  second  50 

6  "  7i      "  "     50   "     2i          "       " 

7  "  4i      "  "     50   "     2}          "       " 

"gii  182      S)8i  150 

A  little  more  than  \  inch  a  year.  Average  ^  inch. 

The  7th  grew  only  something  less  than  three  inches 
(which  was  all  of  the  sap)  in  the  last  sixty-seven  or  eight 
years,  or  one  twenty-second  of  an  inch  a  year  only. 
Indeed,  in  one  case,  the  6th,  the  outside  had  grown  only, 
one  and  one  fourth  inches  in  sixty-four  years,  or  about  one 
fiftieth  of  an  inch  in  a  year,  just  one  inch  in  the  last 
fifty-three  years,  or  one  fifty-third  of  an  inch  a  year,  — 
equal  to  the  finest  scales.  I  should  say  that  they  aver- 
aged but  one  thirty-sixth  part  of  an  inch  the  third  or  last 
fifty  years. 

1st  50  2d  50  8d  50 

i  inch  ^  ^ 

That  is,  their  rate  of  growth  the  three  successive  periods 
of  fifty  years  diminishes  in  geometrical  progression,  the 
quotient  being  two. 

The  seven  pitch  pine  stumps  measured  on  the  30th 
averaged  thirty-four  years  and  had  grown  a  tenth  of  an 
inch  in  a  year.  This  is  a  perfect  and  remarkable  agree- 
ment, and  quite  unlooked  for.  They  were  a  mile  apart. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1860]        GROWTH  OF  PITCH  PINES  205 

and  I  was  not  reminded  of  those  previous  measure- 
ments until  I  chanced  to  compare  them  afterward. 

I  may  therefore  take  this  to  be  [the]  average  growth 
of  a  pitch  pine  for  the  first  fifty  years.  But  I  have  not 
yet  taken  into  the  account  the  fact  that,  though  the 
thickness  of  the  layer  is  less,  its  superficies,  or  extent, 
is  greater,  as  the  diameter  of  the  tree  increases.  Let  us 
compare  the  three  portions  of  wood. 
If  the  diameter  at  the  end  of  the  first 
fifty  years  is  four,  the  second  fifty, 
six,  and  the  third  fifty,  seven,  then 
the  amount  of  wood  added  each 
term  will  be  (to  omit  very  minute 
fractions)  twelve  and  a  half,  fifteen 
and  a  half,  and  ten  respectively.*  So 
that,  though  in  the  second  fifty  the 
rings  are  twice  as  near  together,  yet  considerably  more 
wood  is  produced  than  in  the  first,  but  in  the  third  fifty 
the  tree  is  evidently  enfeebled,  and  it  probably  is  not 
profitable  (so  far  as  bulk  is  concerned)  to  let  it  grow 
any  more. 

The  very  oldest  trees  whose  rings  I  have  counted 
(i,  e,  these  pitch  pines  and  the  oaks  on  Eb.  Hubbard's 
hill)  grew  thus  slowly  at  last,  which  I  think  indicates 
that  a  tree  has  a  definite  age  after  which  it  grows  more 
languidly  or  feebly,  and  thus  gradually  ceases  to  grow 
at  all,  —  dies  and  decays.  I  should  say  that  these 
pitch  pines  flourished  till  they  were  about  a  hundred 
years  old,  and  that  they  then  began  to  grow  with  less 

*  Or,  actually  averaging  eight  trees  under  Nov.  10th,  it  is  7, 10+, 
10-. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


«06  JOURNAL  [Nov.  1 

vigor,  though  their  old  age  (in  this  sense)  might  be  a 
third  or  more  of  their  whole  life.  Two  or  three  more 
were  dead  or  nearly  dead  when  sawed  four  years  ago, 
and  I  saw  the  rotted  stumps  of  some  others. 

There  were  twenty  or  thirty  of  the  pitch  pines,  — 
though  I  measured  the  largest  of  them,  —  and  they 
were  all  but  one  or  two  perfectly  sound  to  the  core, 
and  the  inmost  rings  were  the  plainest.  The  sap  was 
only  from  one  and  three  quarters  to  three  inches  thick, 
and  was  the  most  decayed.  (It  was  one  and  three 
quarters  inches  thick  in  No.  6.)  The  bark  was  gen- 
erally from  two  to  two  and  three  quarters  inches  thick. 
This  would  have  added  four  and  three  quarters  to 
the  average  diameter  of  the  trees,  or  made  it  twenty- 
four  and  three  quarters.  That  is,  where  sawed  oflF, 
which  was  rather  low,  or  say  eight  to  ten  inches  above 
ground. 

There  were  also  as  many  or  more  large  white  pines 
mixed  with  them.  One  of  24  inches  diameter  had  78 
rings;  second,  31  inches,  96  rings.  Also  one  hemlock 
21  inches,  81  rings.  This  had  grown  with  remarkable 
equality  throughout  *  and  was  very  easy  to  count.  An 
oak  (probably  black),  14  inches,  94  rings. 

About  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  then,  there 
came  up  in  and  around  this  hollow  in  the  woods  a  grove 
of  pitch  pines.  Perhaps  some  came  up  twenty  or  thirty 
years  earlier,  which  have  now  died  and  decayed.  When 
the  first  had  grown  for  about  sixty  years,  many  white 
pines  sprang  up  amid  and  under  them,  as  we  see  hap- 
pen to-day. 

^  And  so  it  is  generally. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]     LIST   OF   WHITE   PINE  WOODS       207 

I  occasionally  (or  frequently)  see  white  pines  spring- 
ing up  in  a  sprout-land  when  other  trees  have  failed 
to  fill  it  up  for  some  years. 

No.  6,  having  164  rings  and  having  been  cut  four 
years,  sprang  up  at  least  one  hundred  and  sixty-eight 
years  ago,  or  about  the  year  1692,  or  fifty-seven  years 
after  the  settlement,  1685. 

In  another  case  I  counted  fifteen  rings  (with  a  mi- 
croscope) within  the  last  quarter  of  an  inch,  which  was 
at  the  rate  of  one  sixtieth  of  an  inch  in  a  year,  —  equal, 
I  think,  to  the  finest  scales  ordinarily  used. 

WHITE  PINE  WOODS 

The  small  dense  grove  of  Gark's  (?),  north  of  Boze's  [sic] 
Meadow. 

Near  road,  southwest  of  Tarbell's. 

Abel  Hosmer's,  north  and  northwest  of  house. 

Mason's  pasture  (south  of  this,  younger  white  pine  with  cedars 
intermixed). 

The  Holden  Swamp  woods  as  seen  from  north  (except  south- 
west part). 

Northeast  part  of  Baker  Farm,  quite  young. 

Behind  Martial  Miles*s,  southwest  of  cold  pond-hole. 

East  side  Second  Division  Brook,  very  extensive. 

I  have  seen  that  a  great  many  pitch  pine  cones 
have  been  cut  ofT  this  fall,  but  it  chances  that  I  have 
not  seen  where  they  were  eaten  or  stripped.  I  conclude, 
therefore,  that  they  must  be  collected  into  some  hole 
in  a  tree  or  in  the  earth,  —  there  can  hardly  be  a  doubt 
of  this,  —  and  possibly  some  are  buried  as  nuts  are. 
What  stores  of  them  there  must  be  collected  in  some 
places  now! 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


808  JOURNAL  [Nov.  1 

PITCH  PINE  WOODS 

Young,  north  of  Loring's  Pond. 

Just  beyond  Concord  bound  on  right  hand,  this  side  Wetherbee*s, 
extensive  and  large.  (Tarbell  says  that  when  he  came  to  town 
in  '26  these  were  just  about  as  large  as  his  now.  Sixty  to 
seventy  years  old,  then.) 

Heywood*s  small  grove  southeast  of  Peter's. 

Large,  southeast  Copan. 

Beyond  Nathan  Barrett's,  both  sides  road,  laige. 

Hill  behind  Abner  Buttrick's. 

Lane  south  of  second  Garfield  house. 

Southwest  of  Brooks's  Pigeon-Place. 

North  G.  M.  Barrett's,  by  College  Road. 

Northeast  of  Sam  Barrett's  mill. 

Northwest  of  Sam  Barrett's  mill,  west  of  pond. 

Nov.  2.    P.  M.  —  To  D.  Wetherbee's  old  oak  lot. 

As  several  days  past,  it  has  been  cloudy  and  misty 
in  the  morning  and  fairer  and  warmer,  if  not  Indian 
summer,  in  the  afternoon;  yet  the  mist  lingers  in  drops 
on  the  cobwebs  and  grass  until  night. 

HARDWOOD   LOTS 
Wetherbee's. 
Blood's. 

G.  M.  Barrett's  hillside,  behind  house. 
Walnuts  (young)  of  Smith's  Hill,  Lincoln. 

4<  <«      4<    Annursnack,  above  orchard. 

«  "      Fair  Haven  Hill  slope. 

Also  north  side  of  path  from  Springs  to  bars. 
*•  -      site  of  Britton's  shanty. 

South  side  of  Bear  Hill,  Lincoln. 

Saw  oflF  a  very  large  and  old-looking  shnib  oak  on  a 
pitch  pine  plain,  twelve  or  more  feet  in  height  and  three 
and  one  half  inches  in  diameter  (the  wood)  at  one 
foot  from  the  ground,  where  it  has  just  twenty-seven 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  WHITE   OAKS  209 

rings.  The  first  fourteen  rings  occupied  one  and  a 
quarter  inches  from  the  centre,  where  the  whole  radius 
was  but  one  and  three  quarters.  It  evidently  began  to 
grow  more  slowly  when  fifteen  years  old. 

WetherBee's  oak  lot  may  contain  four  or  five  acres.* 
The  trees  are  white,  red,  scarlet,  and  swamp  white 
oaks,  maple,  white  pine,  and  ash.  They  are  unusually 
large  and  old.  Indeed,  I  doubt  if  there  is  another 
hereabouts  of  oaks  as  large.  It  is  said  that  Wetherbee 
left  them  for  the  sake  of  mast  for  pigeons. 

I  measure  a  white  oak  at  three  feet  from  the  ground, 
—  eight  feet  four  and  one  half  inches  in  circumference. 
Another  white  oak  at  ^ame  height  is  six  and  three 
quarters  in  circumference;  a  red  oak  is  six  feet  two 
inches  in  circumference;  another,  eight  and  a  half; 
another,  seven  and  four  twelfths;  and  the  scarlet  oaks 
are  of  the  same  character,  though  the  above  were  the 
largest,  or  among  the  largest.  These  oaks,  though  they 
form  a  wood,  are  some  of  them  about  as  spreading 
as  a  pasture  oak  (i.  e,  one  or  two  white  ones  near  the 
outside),  but  generally  they  rise  much  higher  before 
they  branch.  The  white  oaks  have  peculiarly  smooth 
tawny-white  boles  for  eight  or  ten  feet  up,  the  coarser 
flakes  of  the  bark  having  scaled  oflF  so  far.  The  red 
oaks,  as  well  as  scarlet,  have  a  coarser  and  rougher, 
more  deeply  furrowed  bark,  and  the  trees  rise  higher 
before  branching  (commonly).  One  not  very  large 
had  no  limb  for  thirty  feet  or  more,  standing  aslant. 
In  the  lowest  part,  on  the  brook,  they  were  swamp 
white  oaks  and  maples.  The  maples,  being  old,  had  a 
*  He  says  eight. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


210  JOURNAL  [Nov.  2 

rough,  dark,  scaly  bark.  There  were  a  few  white  pines 
straggling  into  this  wood  (only  one  large  one). 

Many  of  the  oaks  have  been  cut,  and  I  counted  about 
one  hundred  and  ten  rings  on  one  small  white  oak, 
from  which  I  should  infer  that  the  trees  woiild  average 
much  more  than  that,  perhaps  between  a  hundred  and 
fifty  and  two  hundred  years.  Such  a  wood  has  got  to 
be  very  rare  in  this  neighborhood.  Even  the  gray 
brushy  tops  of  this  attract  your  attention  at  a  distance. 

As  you  approach  the  wood,  and  even  walk  through 
it,  the  trees  do  not  aflFect  you  as  large,  but  as  surely  as 
you  go  quite  up  to  one  you  are  surprised.  The  very 
lichens  and  mosses  which  cover  the  rocks  under  these 
trees  seem,  and  probably  are  in  some  respects,  peculiar. 
Such  a  wood,  at  the  same  time  that  it  suggests  antiquity, 
imparts  an  unusual  dignity  to  the  earth. 

It  is  pleasing  to  see  under  the  trees  great  rocks  covered 
with  polypody,  which  has  caught  a  great  crop  of  shin- 
ing brown  oak  leaves  to  contrast  with  its  green.  This 
oak  wood  is  now  bare  and  the  leaves  just  fairly  fallen. 

This  is  probably  one  of  those  woods,  like  Ebby 
Hubbard's,  which  was  never  cut  oflF  but  only  cut  out  of. 

i  think  it  would  be  worth  the  while  to  introduce  a 
school  of  children  to  such  a  grove,  that  they  may  get 
an  idea  of  the  primitive  oaks  before  they  are  all  gone, 
instead  of  hiring  botanists  to  lecture  to  them  when  it  is 
too  late.  Why,  you  do  not  now  often  meet  with  a  re- 
spectable oak  stump  even,  for  they  too  have  decayed. 

I  see  a  this  year's  sound  red  oak"  acorn  tucked  into  a 
crevice  in  the  bark  of  a  white  oak  a  foot  or  more  from 
the  ground. 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


1860]  THE  VACCINIA  211 

Even  in  this  old  oak  wood  there  is  to  be  observed  a 
resemblance  to  the  primitive  woods.  The  ground, 
never  having  been  cleared  nor  cultivated,  has  a  more 
primitive  look;  there  are  more  ferns  on  it,  and  the  rocks 
are  far  greener,  with  these  and  with  lichens,  never  hav- 
ing been  burned  and  bleached  white  by  sun  and  fire. 

Lee  of  the  Comer  speaks  of  an  oak  lot  of  his  in  Sud- 
bury, which  he  bought  in  '31  and  cut  oflF  (last  and  all 
of  it  last  winter),  but  from  the  older  stumps  no  sprouts 
have  come  up,  but  good  ones  from  the  younger. 

You  see  the  tufts  of  indigo  now  broken  oflF  and 
dropped  exactly  bottom  up  in  the  pastures,  as  if  an 
industrious  farmer  had  been  collecting  it  by  handfuls, 
which  he  had  dropped  thus. 

It  would  be  just  as  .sensible  for  them  to  treat  their 
young  orchards  or  nurseries  of  apple  trees  in  the  same 
way,  i,  e.,  to  bum  them  over  and  raise  rye  there  a  year 
or  two,  thinking  to  do  them  good. 

As  for  the  Vaccinia^  I  am  disposed  to  agree  with 
those  who  derive  the  name  from  bacca,  a  berry,  for  one 
species  or  another  of  this  large  family  is  the  berry  of 
berries  in  most  northern  parts  of  the  world.  They  form 
an  under-shrub,  or  sort  of  lower  forest,  even  throu^- 
out  our  woodlands  generally,  to  say  nothing  of  open 
fields  and  hills.  They  form  a  humble  and  more  or 
less  dormant,  but  yet  vivacious  forest- under  a  forest, 
which  bides  its  time. 

This  wonderful  activity  of  the  squirrels  in  collecting 
and  dispersing  and  planting  nuts  and  acorns,  etc.,  etc., 
every  autumn  is  the  more  necessary  since  the  trees  on 
whose  fruit  they  mainly  live  are  not  annual  plants 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


212  JOURNAL  [Nov.  2 

like  the  wheat  which  supplies  our  staflF  of  life.  If  the 
wheat  crop  fails  this  year,  we  have  only  to  sow  more 
the  next  year,  and  reap  a  speedy  harvest,  but  if  the 
forests  were  to  be  planted  only  at  intervals  equal  to  the 
age  of  the  trees,  there  would  be  danger,  what  with 
fires  and  blight  and  insects,  of  a  sudden  failure  and 
famine.  It  is  important  that  there  be  countless  trees 
in  every  stage  of  growth,  —  that  there  be  an  annual 
planting,  as  of  wheat.  Consider  the  amount  of  work 
they  have  to  do,  the  area  to  be  planted! 

More  or  less  rainy  to-day. 

I  hear  that  geese  went  over  to-day,  alighted  in  Walden. 

Nov.  4.    P.  M.  —  To  Tommy  Wheeler's  lot. 

As  I  go  over  John  Hosmer's  High  Level,  there  being 
considerable  wind,  I  notice  for  the  first  time  that  pe- 
culiar blueness  of  the  river  agitated  by  the  wind  and 
contrasting  with  the  tawny  fields,  a  fall  phenomenon. 
Tarbell's  white  pine  grove  northwest  of  the  Irishman's, 
in  the  swamp,  and  some  thirty  to  forty  years  old,  is  so 
dense  that  there  is  no  growth  under  it,  only  a  tawny 
carpet  of  pine-needles. 

In  the  Tommy  Wheeler  lot  south  of  the  old  pitch  pine 
hollow,  I  see  the  stumps  of  many  white  pines  and  oaks 
which  were  cut  some  four  years  ago,  and  no  fire  has 
been  set  there.  These  oak  stumps  have  generally  fifty- 
three  or  fifty-four  rings,  though  some  pitch  pines  and 
oaks  are  much  older;  but  I  scarcely  see  a  stump  of  this 
age  even  which  has  sent  up  any  shoots.  I  notice  one- 
The  sprouts  are  from  a  much  younger  growth.  It  is 
evident  that  all  the  larger  stumps  were  too  old  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  OLD  STUMPS  213 

eflFete,  young  as  they  were.  In  two  or  three  cases  I  notice 
these  stumps  of  oaks  cut  some  four  years  ago  and  havmg 
fifty-three  or  four  rings  (from  which  no  shoot  has  put 
forth),  two  together,  half  inclosing  in  a  semicircle  a 
very  old  and  almost  completely  decayed  stump,  which, 
of  course,  was  cut  some  fifty-eight  years  ago.  These 
sprouts  are  rarely  sound  quite  to  the  core.  Perhaps  the 
rest  are  sprouts  whose  stumps  have  quite  disappeared, 
and  this,  i.  e.  the  great  age  of  the  roots,  may  account  for 
its  sending  up  no  more  sprouts.  I  see,  then,  that  the 
stumps  of  trees  which  were  cut  sixty  years  ago  are  still 
very  common  to  be  seen  in  our  woods. 

I  have  but  little  doubt  that  if  Wetherbee*s  old  oak 
lot  should  now  be  cut  no  sprouts  would  come  up  from 
the  stumps.  It  is  by  seeds  that  oaks  would  have  to  be 
renewed  there,  if  at  all ;  but  rather  it  is  time  for  a  diflFer- 
ent  growth,  i.  e,  for  pines,  and  if  he  contemplates  the 
removal  of  these  oaks  he  should  be  considering  how  to 
favor  the  growth  of  pines  there.  They  are  already 
appearing  thinly  on  various  sides  within  that  wood. 

I  frequently  notice  the  seeds  of  small  fruits  and  weeds 
left  on  stumps  by  birds  and  mice  and  even  foxes  (in 
their  excrement). 

There  is  'primitive  wood  which  has  never  been 
touched  by  the  civilized  man.   We  have  none  of  this. 

Then  there  is  'primitive  woodland,  L  e.,  which  has 
never  been  cut  clean  off,  and  which  in  age  now  is  mostly 
second  growth. 

Then  there  is  primitive  copsewood,  i.  e.,  which  has 
been  cut  clean  off  but  suffered  to  grow  up  again  without 
further  clearing  or  burning. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


214  JOURNAL  [Nov.  4 

Then  copsewood  of  other  kinds. 

Sophia  brings  me  the  drawer  which  held  her  acorns 
(almost  all  red  oak).  It  is  seventeen  and  a  half  inches  by 
twelve  and  a  half  and  two  inches  deep,  and  I  comit, 
crawling  about  on  the  bottom,  one  hundred  and  seventy- 
three  great  full-grown  grubs  with  brown  heads,  which 
have  come  out  of  the  acorns  by  a  hole,  oftenest  at  the 
edge  of  the  cup  on  one  side.  And  many  of  the  grubs 
had  been  thrown  away,  and  probably  some  had  crawled 
away  within  a  month,  and  no  doubt  more  are  still  to 
come  out.  Also  the  bottom  of  this  box  is  covered  with 
four  or  five  times  as  many  minute  pink  grubs  which 
may  be  the  progeny  of  the  former:  here  are  at  least 
eight  hundred  and  sixty-five  (or  say  one  thousand) 
grubs  to  about  four  quarts  of  acorns  vnth  their  cups  (the 
box  was  hardly  more  than  half  full).  I  find  that  sixty  red 
oak  acorns  with  their  cups  make  one  pint.  There  were, 
therefore,  about  five  hundred  acorns  to  one  hundred  and 
seventy-three  large  grubs  already  out  in  the  box,  to  say 
nothing  of  those  that  have  been  thrown  and  have 
crawled  away,  nor  of  the  seven  or  eight  hundred  young 
grubs  and  probably  more  yet  to  be  produiced.  Not  quite 
half  of  the  acorns,  then,  have  grubs  in  them.*  Now  add 
the  squirrels,  jays,  crows,  and  other  birds  and  quad- 
rupeds that  feed  on  them,  and  the  eflFect  of  the  winter's 
cold  and  rain,  and  how  many  of  the  acorns  of  this  year 
will  be  fit  to  plant  next  spring  ? 

*  Nov.  22,  about  a  third  as  many  more  grubs  have  come  out  of 
these  acorns,  —  both  large  and  small  grubs,  —  which  will  make 
nearly  half  as  many  large  grubs  as  acorns  ;  and  each  of  these  large 
grubs  has  been  the  destruction  of  an  acorn,  so  that  already  one  half 
of  these  acorns  have  been  destroyed  by  worms. 


Digitized  by  VnOOQ  IC 


1860]  A   GREAT  WHITE   OAK  215 

It  appears  that  nearly  half  of  these  red  oaks  have 
already  manifestly  been  destroyed  by  worms.  It  is  evi- 
dent that  there  will  be  at  least  two  grubs  to  one  of  these 
acorns,  though  of  course  the  grubs  will  not  always  be 
with  the  acorn.  This  is  one  of  the  nut  weevils,  and  since 
they  come  from  eggs  laid  by  a  beetle,  it  would  seem 
that  many  eggs  must  have  been  recently  laid. 

White  birch  seed  has  but  recently  begun  to  fall.  I  see 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  many  catkins  bare.  May  have 
begun  for  a  week.  To-day  also  I  see  distinctly  the  tree 
sparrows,  and  probably  saw  them,  as  supposed,  some 
days  ago.  Perhaps  they  feed  on  the  birch  seed  as  the 
linarias  do.  Thus  the  birch  begins  to  shed  its  seed  about 
the  time  our  winter  birds  arrive  from  the  north. 

Nov,  5.  P.  M.  —  To  Blood's  oak  lot. 

Measure  the  great  white  oak  near  the  bars  of  the 
bridle-road  just  beyond  the  northeast  comer  of  the 
Holden  (?)  farm.  At  the  ground  it  is  about  nineteen 
feet  in  circumference.  At  three  feet  from  the  ground  it 
is  eleven  feet  and  seven  inches  in  circumference,  and  the 
same  at  five  feet  and  apparently  more  above  this.  It  is 
about  sixteen  feet  to  the  lowest  limb.  The  whole  trunk 
standing  aslant.  It  has  a  black  and  quite  rough  bark, 
not  at  all  like  that  of  the  white  oaks  of  Wetherbee's  and 
Blood's  lots.  There  is  a  large  open  space  amid  the 
huckleberry  bushes  beneath  it,  covered  with  a  short 
and  peculiarly  green  sward,  and  this  I  see  is  the  case  with 
other  oaks  a  quarter  of  a  mile  off. 

There  is  a  large  chestnut  in  the  lot  east  of  this,  and  I 
observe  that  its  top  is  composed  of  many  small  branches 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


216  JOURNAL  [Nov.  5 

and  twigs  disposed  very  regularly  and  densely,  brush- 
wise,  with  a  firm,  distinct,  more  than  semicircular  edge 
against  the  horizon,  very  unlike  the  irregular,  open,  and 
more  scraggy-twigged  oak.\ 

Blood's  oak  lot  may  contain  about  a  dozen  acres.  It 
consists  of  red,  black,  white,  and  swamp  white  oaks, 
and  a  very  little  maple.  The  following  are  some  of  the 
largest  that  I  saw.  I  measured  one  black  oak  which  was, 
at  three  feet  high,  four  feet  eight  inches  in  circumference ; 
another,  five  feet  six  inches;  and  another  the  same.  A 
red  oak  was  six  feet  three  inches ;  another,  seven  feet  four 
inches;  another,  seven  feet  four  inches;  another,  seven 
feet.  One  swamp  white  oak  was  six  feet  four  inches.  A 
white  oak  was  seven  feet  seven  inches,  and  another  the 
same.  The  diameter  of  a  third  at  one  foot  from  ground 
(sawed  oflF)  was  thirty-one  and  a  half  inches  average. 

This  is  quite  a  dense  wood-lot,  even  without  consider- 
ing the  size  9f  the  trees,  and  I  was  rather  surprised  to 
see  how  much  spread  there  was  to  the  tops  of  the  trees 
in  it,  especially  to  the  white  oaks.  The  trees  here  rise 
far  higher  before  branching,  however,  than  in  open 
land ;  some  black  oaks  (if  not  others)  were  very  straight 
and  thirty  to  forty  feet  high  without  a  limb.  I  think  that 
there  was  not  so  much  diflFerence  in  color  between  the 
trunks  of  black  and  red  oaks  as  commonly.  The  red 
oaks  were  oftener  smooth,  or  smoothish,  the  largest  of 
them.  I  saw  very  little  de6ay.  Considering  their  num- 
ber and  closeness,  the  trees  were  on  the  whole  larger 
than  I  should  have  expected,  though  of  course  not  nearly 
so  large  as  the  largest  pasture  oaks,  —  one  to  two  and  a 
half  feet  in  diameter,  or  say  generally  (the  sizable  trees) 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    SLOW  GROWTH  AND  SOUNDNESS    217 

a  foot  and  a  half  in  diameter.  This  will  probably  do  for 
a  specimen  of  a  primitive  oak  forest  hereabouts.  Such 
probably  was  the  size  and  aspect  of  the  trees. 

As  for  its  age,  I  saw  the  stump  of  a  white  oak  (not 
quite  so  large  as  those  I  measured)  which  had  been 
sawed  oflF  at  about  one  foot  from  the  ground  within  four 
or  five  years,  perfectly  level  and  sound  to  the  core,  and 
thirty-one  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter.  The  first 
thirty-three  (?)  rings  were  so  close  and  indistinct  as  to 
be  impossible  to  count  exactly  (occupying  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  of  the  centre) ;  the  rest  was  perfectly  distinct. 
In  all  one  hundred  and  forty-seven  rings;  or,  by  inches 
from  middle,  thirty-nine,  nine,  six,  seven,  five,  eleven, 
six,  four,  four,  five,  six,  nine,  ten,  twelve,  and  then  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  left.  From  which  it  appears  that  it 
grew  much  the  fastest  at  about  the  age  of  eighty-nine 
years  and  very  much  the  slowest  for  the  first  thirtyrthree 
years. 

I  am  struck  by  the  fact  that  the  more  slowly  trees 
grow  at  first,  the  sounder  they  are  at  the  core,  and  I 
think  that  the  same  is  true  of  human  beings.  We  do  not 
wish  to  see  children  precocious,  making  great  strides 
in  their  early  years  like  sprouts,  producing  a  soft  and 
perishable  timber,  but  better  if  they  expand  slowly  at 
first,  as  if  contending  with  diflBculties,  and  so  are  solidi- 
fied and  perfected.  Such  trees  continue  to  expand  with 
nearly  equal  rapidity  to  an  extreme  old  age. 

Another  white  oak  stump,  not  so  large  but  somewhat 
decayed,  had  one  hundred  and  sixty  and  more  rings. 
So  that  you  may  say  this  wood  is  a  hundred  to  a  hundred 
and  sixty  years  old. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


218  JOURNAL  [Nov.  5 

I  was  struck  by  the  orderly  arrangement  of  the  trees, 
as  if  each  knew  its  own  place;  and  it  was  just  so  at 
Wetherbee's  lot.  This  being  an  oak  wood,  and  like  that, 
somewhat  meadow  [sic]  in  the  midst,  the  swamp  white 
oaks  with  a  very  few  maples  occupied  that  part,  and  I 
think  it  likely  that  a  similar  selection  of  the  ground 
might  have  been  detected  often  in  the  case  of  the  other 
oaks,  as  the  white  compared  with  the  red.  As  if  in  the 
natural  state  of  things,  when  sufficient  time  is  given, 
trees  will  be  found  occup)dng  the  places  most  suitable 
to  each,  but  when  they  are  interfered  with,  some  are 
prompted  to  grow  where  they  do  not  belong  and  a  cer- 
tain degree  of  confusion  is  produced.  That  is,  our  forest 
generally  is  in  a  transition  state  to  a  settled  and  normal 
condition. 

Many  young  white  pines  —  the  largest  twenty  years 
old  —  are  distributed  through  this  wood,  and  I  have 
no  doubt  that  if  let  alone  this  would  in  a  hundred  years 
look  more  like  a  pine  wood  than  an  oak  one. 

Hence  we  see  that  the  white  pine  may  introduce  itself 
into  a  primitive  oak  wood  of  average  density. 

The  only  sounds  which  I  heard  were  the  notes  of  the 
jays,  evidently  attracted  by  the  acorns,  and  the  only 
animal  seen  was  a  red  squirrel,  while  there  were  the 
nests  of  several  gray  squirrels  in  the  trees. 

Last  evening,  the  weather  being  cooler,  there  was  an 
arch  of  northern  lights  in  the  north,  with  some  redness. 
Thus  our  winter  is  heralded. 

It  is  evident  that  the  pasture  oaks  are  commonly 
the  survivors  or  relics  of  old  oak  woods,  —  not  having 
been  set  out  of  course,  nor  springing  up  often  in  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]       COWS  AND  PASTURE  TREES         219 

bare  pasture,  except  sometimes  along  fences.  I  see  that 
on  the  outskirts  of  Wetherbee's  and  Blood's  lots  are 
some  larger,  more  spreading  and  straggling  trees,  which 
are  not  to  be  distinguished  from  those.  Such  trees 
are  often  found  as  stragglers  beyond  a  fence  in  an  adja- 
cent lot.  Or,  as  an  old  oak  wood  is  very  gradually 
thinned  out,  it  becomes  open,  grassy,  and  park-like, 
and  very  many  owners  are  inclined  to  respect  a  few 
larger  trees  on  account  of  old  associations,  until  at  length 
they  begin  to  value  them  for  shade  for  their  cattle. 
These  are  oftenest  white  oaks.  I  think  that  they  grow 
the  largest  and  are  the  hardiest.  This  final  arrangement 
is  in  obedience  to  the  demand  of  the  cow.  She  says, 
looking  at  the  oak  woods:  "Your  tender  twigs  are 
good,  but  grass  is  better.  Give  me  a  few  at  intervals  for 
shade  and  shelter  in  storms,  and  let  the  grass  grow 
far  and  wide  between  them." 

No  doubt  most  of  those  white  pines  in  pastures 
which  branch  close  to  the  ground,  their  branches 
curving  out  and  upward  harpwise  without  one  erect 
leading  shoot,  were  broken  down  when  young  by  cows. 
The  cow  does  not  value  the  pine,  but  rubs  it  out  by 
scratching  her  head  on  it. 

Nov.  6.  Sawed  oflF  half  of  an  old  pitch  pine  stump  at 
Tommy  Wheeler's  hollow.  I  found  that,  though  the  sur- 
face was  entire  and  apparently  sound  except  one  or  two 
small  worm-holes,  and  the  sap  was  evidently  decaying, 
yet  within,  or  just  under  the  surface,  it  was  extensively 
h^eycombed  by  worms,  which  did  not  eat  out  to  the 
surface.    Those  rings  included  in  the  outmost  four  or 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


220  JOXJRNAL  [Nov.  6 

five  inches  were  the  most  decayed,  —  including  the  sap- 
wood. 


Nov.  7.   To  Cambridge  and  Boston. 

Nov.  8.  2  p.  M.  —  To  Mt.  Misery  via  sugar  maples 
and  Lee's  Bridge. 

The  white  oak  near  the  English  cress  at  three  feet 
is  nine  feet  and  one  twelfth  in  circumference  and  has  a 
rough  and  dark  bark.  By  its  branching  so  low,  it  sug- 
gests that  it  may  have  stood  in  comparatively  open 
ground  most  of  its  life,  or  such  as  the  outmost  oaks  in 
Blood's  wood  toward  his  house. 

I  notice  along  the  G)mer  road,  beyond  Abiel  Wheeler's, 
quite  a  number  of  little  white  pines  springing  up 
against  the  south  wall,  whose  seed  must  have  been 
blown  from  Hubbard's  Grove  some  fifty  rods  east. 
They  extend  along  a  quarter  of  a  mile  at  least. 
Also  a  wet  and  brushy  meadow  some  forty  rods 
in  front  of  Garfield's  is  being  rapidly  filled  with  white 
pines  whose  seeds  must  have  been  blown  an  equal 
distance. 

We  need  not  be  surprised  at  these  results  when  we 
consider  how  persevering  Nature  is,  and  how  much 
time  she  has  to  work  in,  though  she  works  slowly.  A 
great  pine  wood  may  drop  many  millions  of  seeds  in  one 
year,  and  if  only  half  a  dozen  are  conveyed  a  quarter  of 
a  mile  and  lodge  against  some  fence,  and  only  one  comes 
up  and  lives  there,  yet  in  the  course  of  fifteen  or  twenty 
years  there  are  fifteen  or  twenty  young  trees  there,  and 
they  begin  to  make  a  show  and  betray  their  origin.    It 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  SUGAR   MAPLES  221 

does  not  imply  any  remarkable  rapidity  or  success  in 
Nature's  operations. 

In  the  wood  north  of  the  sugar  maples  a  hickory  but  • 
two  feet  in  circumference  has  eighty-six  rings.   A  white 
oak  twenty-six  inches  [in]  diameter  has  one  hundred 
and  twenty-eight  rings.  ' 

The  sugar  maples  occupy,  together  with  oaks  of  the 
same  size,  about  thirty  rods,  or  say  ten  rods  by  three. 
The  largest  about  five  inches  [in]  diameter,  but  gener- 
ally quite  small.  They  have  sprung  from  quite  small 
stumps,  commonly  not  bigger  than  themselves  at  most. 
They  are  peculiar  among  maples  in  retaining  yet  a 
part  of  their  leaves, — a  delicate  fawn(  ?  )-color,  pale 
brown. 

There  is  quite  a  pitch  pine  wood  on  the  lane  beyond 
the  second  Garfields,  but  though  there  are  very  few 
little  white  pines  under  it  (no  large  ones),  these  are 
under  the  densest  part,  and  there  are  no  little  pitch  pines, 
though  they  are  common  in  the  more  open  parts.  Seed- 
bearing  pines  are  distant  here.  I  observe  on  the  trunk 
of  one  of  the  largest  of  these  pitch  pines  (which  may 
be  forty  years  old),  standing  on  the  outside  the  wood, 
minute  or  short  branches,  commonly  mere  tufts  of 
needles  in  rings  around  the  trunk,  —  reminding  you 
even  of  the  branches  of  the  horse-tail,  they  are  in  this 
case  so  regular,  —  perfectly  horizontal  and  six  to 
twelve  inches  apart.  Some  are  two  or  three  years  old, 
but  only  three  to  six  inches  long.  These  seem  to  repre- 
sent the  old  whorls  of  branches.  Perhaps,  tlie  tree 
growing  slowly  at  the  top,  the  dormant  buds  here  are 
stimulated.  I  afterward  see  in  another  wood  an  outside 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


222  JOURNAL  [Nov.  8 

pitch  pine,  a  tall  one,  on  which  some  of  these  tufts  had 
apparently  developed  into  branches  four  or  five  feet 
long,  in  imperfect  whorls,  the  top  being  partly  dead. 

A  white  oak  stump,  roadside  west  of  Abel  Minott 
house  site,  nineteen  and  one  half  inches  [in]  diameter 
(wood),  sixty-five  rings.  A  pitch  pine  standing  on 
opposite  side  more  westeriy  is  five  and  nine  twelfths 
feet  in  circumference  at  three  feet. 

I  observe  on  the  west  side  of  Mt.  Misery,  cut  off 
apparently  last  winter,  mulleins,  very  tall,  sprung  up,  — 
as  well  as  fire-weed  and  goldenrods.  I  saw  an  abundance 
of  mulleins  in  a  young  wood-lot  with  much  bare  ground, 
burnt  over  a  year  or  so  ago,  behind  Mason's  on  the 
bridle-road,  on  the  5th,  so  that  the  mullein  too  might  be 
called  a  fire-weed.  But  I  notice  that  those  plants  so 
called,  as  the  epilobium  and  senecio,  and  which  are 
supposed  to  owe  their  origin  to  the  fire,  generally  spring 
up  on  a  surface  made  bare  by  whatever  cause.  They 
are  the  first  weeds  after  a  clearing  or  cutting. 

On  this  same  Mt.  Misery  (cut  last  winter),  an  oak 
stump  (apparently  black)  eleven  and  one  half  inches 
[in]  diameter,  sixty-one  rings ;  a  white  oak,  thirteen  inches, 
fifty-eight  rings.  I  count  four  or  more  of  these  stumps,  — 
which  are  as  plain  as  usual,  —  and  make  from  fifty-foiir 
to  sixty-one  rings,  say  average  fifty-eight  years.  Yet  in 
several  of  these  instances  they  were  manifestly  sprouts, 
and  there  was  the  old  stump  cut  58+1  years  ago.* 
These  stumps  did  not  show  any  trace  of  the  axe,  but 
there  was  one  which  lay  on  its  side,  apparently  of  the 
same  date,  but  from  which  no  sprout  had  come,  which 
»  Vide  Nov.  IS. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    TUFTS  OF  DEAD  INDIGO-WEED     223 

was  much  better  preserved  and  did  show  the  traces  of 
the  axe  plainly.  These  recent  stumps,  though  only 
some  sixty  years  old,  had  in  no  case  sprouted  again, 
and  I  think  that  this  is  because  they  are  sprouts,  and 
that  the  vitality  of  the  stock  was  so  nearly  exhausted. 
These  old  stumps  are  frequently  half  inclosed  in  the 
recent  stump.  I  think  that  I  readily  detected  the  sprout 
also  by  the  greater  breadth  of  the  rings  the  first  few 
years. 

The  stumps  of  trees  which  were  cut  in  the  last  century 
—  oaks  at  least  —  must  be  not  uncommon  in  our  woods. 

Looking  from  this  hill,  I  think  that  I  see  considerably 
more  oak  than  pine  wood. 

Edward  Hoar's  pitch  pine  and  white  pine  lot  on  the 
south  side  of  this  hill  is  e\ddently  a  new  wood.  You 
see  the  green  moss,  the  cladonia,  and  birches  (which  I 
think  do  not  spring  up  within  an  old  wood),  and  even 
feel  with  your  feet  an  old  cow-path  and  see  an  old  apple 
tree  inclosed  in  the  wood.  Are  not  birches  interspersed 
with  pines  a  sign  of  a  new  wood  ? 

When  a  pitch  pine  wood  is  cut,  that  fringe  or  edg- 
ing of  little  pitch  pines  which  commonly  surrounds  it 
may  remain  to  grow  up  and  in  a  measure  represent  it. 
Also,  apparently,  when  for  any  reason,  as  from  frost, 
land  where  the  wood  has  been  cut  remains  compara- 
tively bare  for  several  years  and  becomes  only  grassy, 
pitch  pines  (as  well  as  white  pines)  may  catch  there 
thickly. 

I  constantly  meet  now  with  those  tufts  of  indigo- 
weed  (turned  black)  now  broken  oflF  and  dropped 
exactly  bottom  up,  as  it  were  dropped  by  a  careful  hand 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


224  JOURNAL  [No^.  8 

in  woodland  paths  or  in  pastures,  as  if  an  industrious 
farmer  or  a  simpler  had  been  collecting  it  by  handfuls 
and  had  dropped  his  parcels  thus.  The  fact  is  that  they 
grow  up  many  stems  close  together,  and  their  branches 
are  so  interlaced  as  not  to  be  easily  separated;  so  that 
the  wind  operates  the  more  powerfully  and  breaks  them 
all  off  together  at  the  ground,  and  then,  on  account  of 
their  form,  these  parcels  are  deposited  exactly  l)ottom 
up  commonly,  and  you  see  three  or  four  to  fifteen  or 
more  stems  within  a  diameter  of  four  or  five  inches, 
looking  just  as  if  somebody  had  plucked  them  and  laid 
them  together.*  I  also  see  the  fly-away  grass  going  over 
a  wall  or  rock  from  time  to  time. 

The  Salix  sericea  has  just  blackened  the  ground  with 
its  leaves. 

These  are  annual  phenomena. 

Dr.  (?)  Manasseh  Cutler,  in  the  first  volume  of  the 
Boston  Academy's  Reports  for  1785,  speaks  of  whortle- 
berries only  in  the  half-converted  or  disparaging  way 
in  which  the  English  do,  —  and  have  reason  to,  —  say- 
ing that  children  love  to  eat  them  in  milk.  His  eyes  had 
not  been  opened  to  their  significance ;  they  were  without 
honor  in  their  native  country.  But  I  have  no  doubt 
that  he  ate  them  himself  in  secret. 

Ncrv.  9.^   12  M.  —  To  Inches'  Woods  in  Boxboro. 

This  wood  is  some  one  and  three  quarters  miles 
from  West  Acton,  whither  we  went  by  railroad.  It  is  in 
the  east  part  of  Boxboro,  on  both  sides  of  the  Harvard 

^  So  these  seeds  and  fly-away  grass  seed  dispersed. 
»  Vide  also  Nov.  16. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   INCHES  WOODS  225 

turnpike.  We  walked  mostly  across  lots  from  West 
Acton  to  a  part  of  the  wood  about  half  a  mile  north 
of  the  turnpike,  —  and  the  woods  appeared  to  reach 
as  much  further  north.  We  then  walked  in  the  midst 
of  the  wood  in  a  southwesterly  by  west  direction, 
about  three  quarters  of  a  mile,  crossing  the  turnpike 
west  of  the  maple  swamp  and  the  brook,  and  thence 
south  by  east  nearly  as  much^  more, -^  all  the  way  in 
the  woods,  and  chiefly  old  oak  wood.  The  old  oak  wood, 
as  we  saw  from  the  bare  hill  at  the  south  end,  extends 
a  great  deal  further  west  and  northwest,  as  well  as  north, 
than  we  went,  and  must  be  at  least  a  mile  and  a  half  ^ 
from  north  to  south  by  a  mile  to  a  mile  and  a  quarter  * 
possibly  from  east  to  west.  Or  there  may  be  a  thousand  ^ 
acres  ^  of  old  oak  wood.  The  large  wood  is  chiefly  oak, 
and  that  white  oak,  though  black,  red,  and  scarlet  oak 
are  also  common.  White  pine  is  in  considerable  quan- 
tity, and  large  pitch  pine  is  scattered  here  and  there, 
and  saw  some  chestnut  at  the  south  end.  Saw  no  hem- 
lock or  birch  to  speak  of. 

Beginning  at  the  north  end  of  our  walk,  the  trees 
which  I  measured  were  (all  at  three  feet  from  ground 
except  when  otherwise  stated) :  a  black  oak,  ten  feet  [in] 
circumference,  trunk  tall  and  of  regular  form;  scarlet 
oak,  seven  feet  three  inches,  by  Guggins  Brook;  white 
oak,  eight  feet;  white  oak,  ten  feet,  forks  at  ten  feet; 
white  oak,  fifteen  feet  (at  two  and  a  half  feet,  bulging 
very  much  near  ground;   trunk  of  a  pyramidal  form; 

*  [Queried  in  pencil.] 
*       '  Four  or  five  hundred. 
»  Vide  [p.  227]. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


226  JOURNAL  [Nov.  9 

first  branch  at  sixteen  feet;  this  just  north  of  turnpike 
and  near  Guggins  Brook);  white  oak,  nine  feet  four 
inches  (divides  to  two  at  five  feet);  white  oak,  nine 
feet  six  inches  (divides  to  two  at  five  feet);  red  oak, 
eight  feet  (south  of  road);  white  pine,  nine  feet;  a 
scarlet  or  red  oak  stump  cut,  twenty  and  a  half  inches 
[in]  diameter,  one  hundred  and  sixty  rings. 

I  was  pleased  to  find  that  the  largest  of  the  white  oaks, 
growing  thus  in  a  dense  wood,  often  with  a  pine  or  other 
tree  within  two  or  three  feet,  were  of  pasture  oak  size  and 
even  form,  the  largest  commonly  branching  low.  Very 
many  divide  to  two  trunks  at  four  or  five  feet  only  from 
the  ground.  You  see  some  white  oaks  and  even  some 
others  in  the  midst  of  the  wood  nearly  as  spreading  as 
in  open  land. 

Looking  from  the  high  bare  hill  at  the  south  end,  the 
limits  of  the  old  oak  wood  (so  far  as  we  could  overlook 
it)  were  very  distinct,  its  tops  being  a  mass  of  gray 
brush,  —  contorted  and  intertwisted  twigs  and  boughs, 

—  while  the  younger  oak  wood  around  it,  or  bounding 
it,  though  still  of  respectable  size,  was  still  densely 
clothed  with  the  reddish-brown  leaves. 

This  famous  oak  lot  —  like  Blood's  and  Wetherbee's 

—  is  a  place  of  resort  for  those  who  hunt  the  gray  squir- 
rel.   They  have  their  leafy  nests  in  the  oak-tops. 

It  is  an  endless  maze  of  gray  oak  trunks  and  boughs 
stretching  far  around.  The  great  mass  of  individual 
trunks  which  you  stand  near  is  very  impressive. 

Many  sturdy  trunks  (they  commonly  stand  a  little 
aslant)  are  remarkably  straight  and  round,  and  have  so 
much  regularity  in  their  roughness  as  to  suggest  smooth- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE  INCHES  WOODS  227 

ness.  The  older  or  largest  white  oaks  were  of  a  rougher 
and  darker  bark  than  Wetherbee's  and  Blood's,  though 
often  betraying  the  same  tendency  to  smoothness,  as  if 
a  rough  layer  had  been  stripped  ofiF  near  the  ground. 

I  noticed  that  a  great  many  trmiks  (the  bark)  had 
been  gnawed  near  the  ground,  —  difiFerent  kinds  of  oak 
and  chestnut,  —  perhaps  by  squirrels. 

Nov,  10.  Cheney  gives  me  a  little  history  of  the  Inches 
Woods.  He  says  it  was  a  grant  to  Jekil  (John  (?)  Jekil) 
by  the  crown,  and  that  it  amounted  to  half  of  Boxboro 
as  well  as  much  of  Stow  and  Acton.  That  Jekil  had  a 
summer  house  where  Squire  Hosmer's  house  stands  in 
Stow,  before  the  Revolution,  but  at  that  time  withdrew 
into  Boston.  It  was  a  great  event  when  he  used  to  come 
out  to  Stow  in  the  summer.  Boxboro  was  a  part  of  Stow 
then.  Mr.  Hosmer  had  charge  of  the  lands  for  Inches, 
and  the  kitchen  of  his  house  was  partly  the  old  summer 
house  of  Jekil,  and  he  also  remembered  an  old  negro 
named  York,  who  had  been  a  slave  of  Jekil,  and  he,  the 
negro,  said  that  twenty  of  the  thirty  acres  bought  of 
Inches  by  Hosmer,  behind  his  house,  was  once  fenced  in 
with  a  paling  or  picket  fence  ten  or  fifteen  feet  high, 
and  formed  a  park  in  which  Jekil  kept  deer.  The 
neighbors  used  to  come  and  peep  through  the  paling  at 
the  deer.  Henderson  Inches,  hearing  of  these  lands 
about  the  time  of  the  Revolution,  went  to  the  heirs  of 
Jekil  and  purchased  the  whole  tract  quite  cheap,  and 
they  had  been  a  fortune  to  the  family  since.  Many 
farms  have  been  made  of  parts  of  the  wood,  and  thou- 
sands of  dollars'  worth  of  wood  have  been  sold  at  a  time. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


228  JOURNAL  [Nov.  10 

Had  realized  maybe  $150,000  from  it.  Cheney  had 
heard  that  there  were  about  four  hundred  acres  of  the 
Inches  lands  left.  Henderson  Inches  died  two  or  three 
years  ago,  and  now  his  heirs  wished  to  sell,  but  would 
not  divide  it,  but  sell  in  one  body.  Ruggles,  Nourse,  and 
Mason  wished  to  buy,  but  not  the  whole.  Except  what 
has  been  sold,  or  generally.  Inches  would  not  have  it 
cut.  He  was  sharp  and  stood  out  for  his  price,  and  also 
liked  to  keep  it.  Hence  it  is  a  primitive  oak  wood  and 
said  to  be  the  most  of  one  in  Massachusetts. 

Collier  tells  me  that  his  sunflower-head  (now  dried) 
measures  just  twenty-one  and  a  half  inches  [in]  diame- 
ter, —  the  solid  part. 

Most  think  that  Inches  Wood  was  worth  more  twenty 
or  thirty  years  ago,  —  that  the  oaks  are  now  decayed 
within.  Some  have  suggested  that  it  would  be  much  for 
the  benefit  of  Boxboro  to  have  it  cut  off  and  made  into 
farms,  but  Boxboro  people  answer  no,  that  they  get  a 
good  deal  more  in  taxes  from  it  now  than  they  would 
then. 

How  little  there  is  on  an  ordinary  map!  How  little,  I 
mean,  that  concerns  the  walker  and  the  lover  of  nature. 
Between  those  lines  indicating  roads  is  a  plain  blank 
space  in  the  form  of  a  square  or  triangle  or  polygon  or 
segment  of  a  circle,  and  there  is  naught  to  distinguish 
this  from  another  area  of  similar  size  and  form.  Yet  the 
one  may  be  covered,  in  fact,  with  a  primitive  oak  wood, 
like  that  of  Boxboro,  waving  and  creakmg  in  the  wind, 
such  as  may  make  the  reputation  of  a  county,  while 
the  other  is  a  stretching  plain  with  scarcely  a  tree  on  it. 
The  waving  woods,  the  dells  and  glades  and  green 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   INCHES  WOODS  229 

banks  and  smiling  fields,  the  huge  boulders,  etc.,  etc., 
are  not  on  the  map,  nor  to  be  inferred  from  the 
map. 

That  grand  old  oak  wood  is  just  the  most  remarkable 
and  memorable  thing  in  Boxboro,  and  yet  if  there  is  a 
history  of  this  town  written  anywhere,  the  history  or 
even  mention  of  this  is  probably  altogether  omitted, 
while  that  of  the  first  (and  may  be  last)  parish  is 
enlarged  on. 

What  sort  of  cultivation,  or  civilization  and  improve- 
ment, is  ours  to  boast  of,  if  it  turns  out  that,  as  in  this 
instance,  unhandselled  nature  is  worth  more  even  by 
our  modes  of  valuation  than  our  improvements  are, — 
if  we  leave  the  land  poorer  than  We  found  it  ?  Is  it  good 
economy,  to  try  it  by  the  lowest  standards,  to  cut  down 
all  our  forests,  if  a  forest  will  p^y  into  the  town  treasury 
a  greater  tax  than  the  farms  which  may  supplant  it,  — 
if  the  oaks  by  steadily  growing  according  to  their  nature 
leave  our  improvements  in  the  rear  ? 

How  little  we  insist  on  truly  grand  and  beautiful 
natural  features!  How  many  have  ever  heard  of  the 
Boxboro  oak  woods?  How  many  have  ever  explored 
them  ?  I  have  lived  so  long  in  this  neighborhood  and  but 
just  heard  of  this  noble  forest,  —  probably  as  fine  an 
oak  wood  as  there  is  in  New  England,  only  eight  miles 
west  of  me. 

I  noticed  young  white  pines  springing  up  in  the  more 
open  places  and  dells.  There  were  considerable  tracts 
of  large  white  pine  wood  and  also  pine  and  oak  mixed, 
especially  on  the  hills.  So  I  see  that  the  character  of  a 
primitive  wood  may  gradually  change,  as  from  oak  to 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


230  JOURNAL  [Nov.  10 

pine,  the  oaks  at  last  deea)ang  and  not  being  repkced 
by  oaks. 

Though  a  great  many  of  those  white  oaks  of  the 
Inches  Wood  branch  quite  as  low  and  are  nearly  as 
spreading  as  pasture  oaks,  yet  generally  they  rise  up  in 
stately  columns  thirty  or  forty  or  fifty  feet,  diminishing 
very  little.  The  black  and  red  and  scariet  oaks  are 
especially  columnar  and  tall,  without  branches  for  a 
long  distance,  and  these  trees  are  shaped  more  in  their 
trunks  like  an  elm  than  a  pasture  oak.  They  commonly 
stand  aslant  at  various  angles.  When,  in  the  midst  of 
this  great  oak  wood,  you  look  around,  you  are  struck 
by  the  great  mass  of  gray-barked  wood  that  fills  the  air. 
The  leaves  of  these  old  oaks  are  now  fairly  fallen,  and 
the  ground  is  densely  covered  with  their  rustling  red- 
dish-brown scales. 

A  peculiarity  of  this,  as  compared  with  much  younger 
woods,  is  that  there  is  little  or  no  underwood  and  you 
walk  freely  in  every  direction,  though  in  the  midst  of  a 
dense  wood.    You  walk,  in  fact,  under  the  wood. 

The  wood  not  having  been  cut  to  any  extent,  and  the 
adjacent  country  being  very  little  occupied,  I  did  not 
notice  a  single  cart-path  where  a  wheel-track  was  visible, 
—  at  most  a  slight  vista,  and  one  footpath.  I  knew  that 
I  was  near  the  southwest  edge  by  the  crowing  of  a  cock. 

This  wood  is  said  to  have  been  a  great  resort  for 
pigeons.  We  saw  one  large  pigeon-place  on  the  top  of 
the  hill  where  we  first  entered  it.    Now  used. 

Seeing  this,  I  can  realize  how  this  country  appeared 
when  it  was  discovered.  Such  were  the  oak  woods  which 
the  Indian  threaded  hereabouts. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE  CANADA  LYNX  «31 

Such  a  wood  must  have  a  peculiar  fauna  to  some 
extent.  Warblers  must  at  least  pass  through  it  in  the 
spring,  which  we  do  not  see  here. 

We  have  but  a  faint  conception  of  a  full-grown  oak 
forest  stretching  uninterrupted  for  miles,  Consisting  of 
sturdy  trees  from  one  to  three  and  even  four  feet  in 
diameter,  whose  interiadng  branches  form  a  complete 
and  uninterrupted  canopy.  Many  trunks  old  and  hol- 
low, in  which  wild  beasts  den.  Hawks  nesting  in  the 
^ense  tops,  and  deer  glancing  between  the  trunks,  and 
occasionally  the  Indian  with  a  face  the  color  of  the  faded 
oak  leaf. 

Grimes  said  that  he  could  almost  clasp  the  loins  of 
my  lynx  as  it  hung  up  by  the  heels  before  it  was  skinned; 
it  was  so  slender  there  that  a  man  with  a  large  hand 
could  have  done  it. 

Richardson  in  his  "Fauna  Boieali- Americana," 
which  I  consulted  at  Cambridge  on  the  7th,  says  that  the 
French-Canadians  call  the  Canada  lynx  indifferently 
Le  Chat  or  Le  Peeshoo,  and  Charlevoix  falsely  calls  it 
Carcajou,  which  is  the  wolverene,  and  hence  much  con- 
fusion and  error  among  naturalists.  "Seven  to  nine 
thousand  are  annually  procured  by  the  Hudson's  Bay 
Company.  It  is  found  on  the  Mackenzie  River  as  far 
north  as  latitude  66°."  Easily  killed  by  a  stroke  with  a 
small  stick  on  the  back !  ( ? )  Breeds  once  a  year  and  has 
two  young.  Never  attacks  man.  A  poor  runner,  but  a 
good  swimmer.  Audubon  and  Bachman  repeat  Rich- 
ardson. According  to  Pennant,  Lawson  and  Catesby 
repeat  the  falsehoods  about  its  dropping  from  trees  on 
deer,  etc. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


232  JOURNAL  [Nov.  10 

Observed  in  the  dropping  of  a  fox  the  other  day,  with 
fur,  some  quarter-shaped  (or  triangular  segments)  seeds, 
and  roughish,  which  may  have  been  seeds  of  rose  hips. 
They  were  white.  So  are  the  sweet-briar  hips,  but  the 
common  wild  rose  hips  are  brownish.  Were  they  prinos 
seeds  ?  If  rose  hips,  then  the  fox  enjoys  what  Manasseh 
Cutler  in  1785  called  "the  conserve  of  hepps  of  the 
London  dispensatory"  without  the  sugar. 

Elijah  Wood,  senior,  tells  me  that  about  1814  (or 
before  1815,  in  which  year  he  was  married,  and  while  he 
still  lived  at  his  father's  on  Carlisle  road),  as  he  was 
riding  to  town  on  horseback  in  the  evening  alone  to 
singing  to  prepare  for  Thanksgiving,  he  stopped  to  let 
his  horse  drink  at  the  brook  beyond  Winn's,  when  he 
heard  a  cry  from  some  wild  beast  just  across  the  river. 
It  afiFected  him  so  that  he  did  not  stop  to  let  his  horse 
drink  much.  When  he  returned  later,  —  now  with 
others,  —  they  all  heard  it,  as  if  answering  to  their 
shouts,  somewhat  further  up  the  river.  It  was  also  heard 
by  some  teamsters,  and  also  an  animal  supposed  to  be 
the  same  was  said  to  have  been  seen  by  a  woman  cross- 
ing the  road  just  west  of  where  Wood  now  lives.  It 
was  thought  to  be  a  wolverene. 

I  have  now  measured  in  all  eight  pitch  pine  stumps 
at  the  Tommy  Wheeler  hollow,  sawed  oflF  within  a 
foot  of  the  ground. 

I  measured  the  longest  diameter,  and  then  at  right 
angles  with  that,  and  took  the  average,  and  then 
selected  that  side  of  the  stump  on  which  the  radius 
was  of  average  length  and  counted  the  number  of 
rings  in  each  inch,  beginning  at  the  centre,  thus:  — 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        GROWTH  OF  PITCH  PINES  233 


^3 


§     s 


^5 


<  < 


tf*^<= 


Tp 


«      JS 


^    + 


««       1 


Jl 


"♦■g 


+ 


.a-a^ 


•sSs 


^1^ 


<8       04 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


234  JOURNAL  [Nov.  10 

Of  these  eight,  average  growth  about  one  seventeenth 
of  an  inch  per  year. 

Calling  the  smallest  number  of  rings  in  an  inch  in 
each  tree  1,  the  comparative  slowness  of  growth  of  the 
inches  is  thus  expressed,  viz.:  — 


1 

1.3 

1.7 

1.3 

1. 

1.6 

2.3 

3.7 

3.6 

3.7 

2 

2. 

1.4 

1.2 

1.1 

1. 

1.3 

1.9 

2.1 

2.7 

3.8 

6.6 

8 

1.4 

1.2 

1.2 

1.7 

2.3 

1.6 

2.2 

3.1 

3.4 

4 

1.5 

1.2 

1.6 

2.4 

1.9 

1.8 

1.6 

1.5 

5 

1.3 

1.3 

1. 

1.2 

2.4 

1.9 

2.3 

3.4 

6 

1.4 

1.2 

1.3 

1.6 

1.7 

2.1 

1.9 

1.9 

2.5 

7   . 

1.2 

1. 

1. 

2. 

2.6 

.3.8 

3.6 

8 

1.4 

1.2 

l!l 

1.2 

1. 

1.3 

1.3 

1.7 

2.5 

8.6 

From  the  line  x  I  calculate  the  average  rate  of  growth 
in  diameter  (or  radius)  each  successive  ten  years  thus 
(in  decimals  of  an  inch) :  *  — 


ItolO 

10  to  20 

20-30 

30-10 

40-50       50-60 

60-70 

(.77) 

(.87) 

(.96) 

(.96) 

(.78+)      (.66) 

(•65+) 

70-80 

80-90 

90-100 

100-110 

110-120 

120-180 

(•64-) 

(•48-) 

(•48+) 

(•68-) 

(.51) 

(•48+) 

180-140 

140-150 

150-160 

160-170 

170-180 

180-190 

(•48+) 

(•403) 

(•40) 

(.86+) 

(.80) 

(.30) 

Of  course  the  error  is  great  in  proportion  as  the 
number  of  rings  in  an  inch  exceeds  ten. 

They  grew  in  tlie  first  decade  more  than  in  any 
decade  after  iheir  fiftieth  year,  and  continued  to  grow 
with  pretty  regulariy  accelerated  growth  up  to  about 
the  end  of  the  third  decade,  or  say  about  the  twenty- 
ninth  year,  when  they  were  increasing  fastest  in  diame- 
ter, —  1.92  inches  in  ten  years.     They  continued  to 

^  It  would  have  been  much  easier,  as  well  as  more  correct  if  I  had 
counted  at  first  the  number  of  rings  to  each  inch. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1860]       GROWTH   OF  PITCH  PINES  235 

grow  at  nearly  the  same  rate  through  the  fourth  decade, 
and  then  their  rate  of  growth  very  suddenly  decreased, 
—  i.  e.y  in  fifth  decade,  or  from  the  fortieth  to  the  fiftieth 
years,  when  they  grew  only  about  the  same  as  in  the 
first  decade.  In  the  sixth  and  seventh  decades  the 
rate  of  growth  steadily  decreased  as  fast  as  it  had  in- 
creased in  the  first  three  decades,  and  it  continued  to 
decrease  through  the  eighth,  ninth,  and  tenth  decades, 
though  much  more  slowly.  In  the  eleventh  and  twelfth 
decades,  or  from  one  hundred  to  one  hundred  and 
twenty  years,  the  rate  was  accelerated,  or  they  grew 
faster  than  from  eighty  to  one  hundred,  but  after  the 
twelfth  decade  the  rate  of  growth  steadily  decreased  to 
the  last,  when  it  was  less  than  one  third  what  it  was  in 
the  third  decade.*  When  growing  fastest,  or  between 
the  twentieth  and  thirtieth  year,  the  radius  often  was 
not  increased  one  inch  in  ten  years.  But  after  they 
were  one  hundred  and  sixty  years  old  they  did  not  grow 
four  tenths  ^  of  an  inch  in  ten  years  —  or  one  twenty- 
fifth  '  of  an  inch  in  one  year.*  On  an  average,  by  ac- 
curate observation  these  eight  trees  were  gaining  the 
most  in  diameter  at  about  the  tliirtieth  year,  and  least 
(with  one  exception)  in  the  last  ten  years  of  their 
existence. 

Many  have  inferred  that  it  is  most  profitable  to  cut 
pitch  pine  when  about  thirty  (or  forty)  years  old,  but 
they  seem  to  forget  that  the  most  rapid  increase  in 
diameter  when  the  tree  is  only  ten  or  fifteen  years  old 

^  According  to  calculation,  but  acttuiUy  still  less. 
»  On  an  average,  ^.  »  ^ 

*  And  sometimes  much  less,  as  has  been  stated. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


236  JOURNAL  [Nov.  10 

does  not  indicate  so  great  bulk  of  wood  added  to  the 
tree,  as  a  much  less  increase  in  diameter  when  it  is 
fifty  or  one  hundred  years  old.  Indeed  these  trees, 
slowly  as  they  appeared  to  grow  at  last,  increased  in 
bulk  far  more  rapidly  in  the  last  twenty  years  than  in 
the  first  twenty,  —  or  as  thirty-six  to  ten. 

The  absolute  area  of  the  annual  rings  (which  is  in 
the  same  proportion  as  the  bulk  of  wood  formed)  each 
ten  years  is  (calculated  from  the  measurement  on  the 
third  page  back):  — 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]        GROWTH  OF  PITCH   PINES  «S7 


h- 

a5 

o6 

CO 

1 

s 

S 

S 

S 

^ 

^ 

00 

o 
3 

i 

lO 

^ 

a 

00 

« 

^ 

•♦ 

^ 

00 

5 

2 

^ 

•♦ 

1 

ej 

s 

g 

U 

1H 

i 

1 

S 

1 

s 

s 

i 

2 

•♦ 

u 

i 

1 

S 

e« 

§ 

s 

2 

t- 

^ 

s 

s 

s 

g 

2 

- 

00 
c6 

^ 

1 

si 

^' 

S 

a 

e* 

1 

o 

00 

CO 

i 

s 

^ 

00 

e; 

s 

«H 

§ 

a> 

2 

S3 

s$ 

05 

«J 

8i 

i 

1 

00 

s 

00 

S 

§5 

-* 
t- 

H 

s 

« 

2 

04 

i 

1 

t- 

S 

•* 
^ 

s 

2 

s 

§ 

S 

<N 

i 

<o 

S3 

1 

2 

a 

C4 

53 

a 

i 

1 

00 

lO 

1 

04 

9 

i 

■* 

^ 

^ 

t^ 

1 

g 

^ 

^  , 

1 

1 

2 

eo 

3 

1H 

.  s 

i 

1 

CO 

s 

eo 

s 

o 

to 
m 

00 

rf 

2 

i 

1 

.to 

« 

s 

i6 

S 

5 

•* 

i 

4 

2^ 

|5 

eo 

3 

ci 

s 

c4 

S 

d 

o 

^ 

e4 

1 

IB 

M 

CO 

^ 

s> 

CO 

t- 

00 

4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


238  JOURNAL  [Nov.  10 

I 

According  to  the  above,  most  wood  is  made  in  the 
fourth  decade,  though  there  is  but  little  decrease  in 
amount  afterward. 

There  is  a  loss  of  time  if  you  cut  at  thirty  or  even 
forty  years,  for,  supposing  that  a  new  pitch  pine  were 
at  once  to  take  the  place  of  the  old  one,  at  the  end  of 
forty  years  more  you  would  only  have  got  (2.6  +  7.4  + 
15.5  +  22.9  =  )  48.5  of  wood  more,  instead  of  (21.7  + 
20.8  +  19.5  +  19.2  =  )  81.2  more,  which  you  would  have 
had  by  this  time  if  you  had  let  the  tree  stand.  Or  if 
you  had  cut  it  at  eighty  years,  you  would  only  have 
129.7  of  wood  after  eighty  years  more,  instead  of  the 
155.9  that  might  have,  grown.  Or  even  if  you  should 
cut  every  forty  years,  you  would  after  one  hundred 
and  sixty  years  have  got  only  194  of  wood  to  285.6 
that 'you  might  have  had.  From  which  I  infer  that 
the  greater  bulk  of  wood  made  in  the  third  and  fourth 
decade  is  so  little  more  than  that  made  in  any  succeed- 
ing ten  years  of  the  tree's  age,  and  so  much  more  than 
that  made  in  the  previous  ten  years,  that  if  you  want 
this  kind  of  wood  it  is  best  to  let  the  tree  stand  as  long 
as  it  is  sound  and  growing. 

To  be  sure,  the  above  calculation  supposes  the  tree 
to  increase  in  height  in  proportion  to  its  age — which  is 
hardly  the  case  —  and  also  that  the  same  number  of 
large  trees  can  stand  on  the  same  area  as  of  small  ones. 
But  even  after  these  deductions,  when  we  consider  the 
proportionally  greater  value  of  large  timber  of  this 
kind,  it  must  be  best  to  let  it  grow  as  long  as  it  will. 

The  same  is  true  until  the  last  forty  years  makes  less 
wood  than  the  first  forty.    The  first  forty  makes  48.5; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  OLD  OAK  STUMPS  289 

the  last,  76.8.  However,  the  time  of  cutting  may  depend 
partly  on  the  number  of  trees  that  stand  on  a  given 
area  and  also  on  whether  they  are  wanted  for  fuel  or 
for  lumber,  many  small  being  about  as  good  for  the 
former  use  as  a  few  large;  i.  e.,  these  trees  made  more 
wood  any  other  forty  years  than  the  first.  Why,  then, 
employ  them  then  only? 

Nov.  10  and  11  were  rainy,  raising  the  river  con- 
siderably on  to  the  meadows. 

N(yv.  IS.    P.  M.  —  To  Mt.  Misery. 

A  white  birch  {Betula  alba)  west  edge  of  Trillium 
Wood,  two  feet  seven  inches  [in]  circumference  at  three 
feet. 

On  the  Moore  and  Hosmer  lot,  cut  in  *52  (I  think), 
west  of  railroad,  south  of  Heywood's  meadow,  an  oak 
stump  fifteen  and  a  half  inches  [in]  diameter,  ninety- 
three  rings;  another,  white  oak,  fourteen  and  a  half 
inches  [in]  diameter,  ninety-four  rings.  In  the  first 
case  there  were  two  stumps  of  same  age,  evidently 
sprouts  from  an  older  stock,  they  curving  around  it,  but 
I  observed  only  a  slight  hollow  where  apparently  the  old 
stump  had  been.  In  the  second  case  there  was  but  one 
stump,  but  that  rather  concave  on  one  side  where 
there  was  a  deep  hollow  in  the  earth.  In  both  of  these 
cases  the  tenacious  mould,  covered  slightly  with  a  fine 
greenish  lichen,  appeared  heaved  up  about  where  the 
old  stump  had  been.  It  was  a  good  hundred  years  since 
that  old  stump  was  cut.  The  inmost  rings  of  the  recent 
stumps  were  coarse,  as  with  sprouts. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


240  JOURNAL  [Nov.  IS 

Near  these  apparently  a  black  (?)  oak,  or  maybe  a 
chestnut  (?),  twenty  inches  [in]  diameter  and  seventy- 
four  rings,  but  the  centre  was  within  four  inches  of  the 
westeriy  side. 

A  white  oak  standing  by  the  fence  west  of  Spanish 
Brook  dam  on  Morse's  lot,  circumference  six  feet  and 
two  twelfths  at  three  feet.  Near  by  a  hornbeam  a  foot 
and  a  half  [in]  circumference  at  three  feet. 

J.  Baker's  pitch  pines  south  of  upper  wood-path 
north  of  his  house  abundantly  con^rm  the  rule  of 
young  white  pines  under  pitch  pines.  That  fine  young 
white  pine  wood  west  of  this  is  partly  of  these  which 
were  left  when  the  pitch  pines  were  cut. 

Baker's  hill  between  farm  and  Pleasant  Meadow, 
oak  (apparently  a  black),  diameter  twenty-six,  seventy- 
one  rings.  The  stumps  here  were  cut  some  five  or  six 
years  ago  and  have  fifty  to  sixty  rings.  Conmionly  no 
sprouts  from  those  of  this  age  here. 

On  top  of  Mt.  Misery,  looked  again  at  those  old 
stumps  (of  the  8th).  There  are  three  or  four  quite  plain, 
just  showing  themselves  above  the  surface,  with 
rounded,  flaky,  decaying  and  crumbling  edge,  close 
to  the  recent  stump  of  the  shoot  or  shoots  which  sprang 
from  them  and  which  were  cut  last  winter.  One  of  these 
recent  stumps,  counted  to-night,  gives  sixty  years,  but 
the  first  two  or  three  are  uncertain.  Hence  this  old 
stump  is  as  old  as  the  century. 

There  are  several  perfectly  dry  and  exposed  stumps 
on  bare  rocky  shelves,  or  else  lying  on  rocks  on  their 
sides,  quite  well  preserved  and  showing  the  marks  of 
the  axe,  which  I  have  but  little  doubt  are  of  tlie  same 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]       THE   INCHES  WOODS  AGAIN         241 

age,  preserved  by  being  tipped  out  of  the  earth  many 
years  ago.* 

Am  surprised  at  the  very  slow  growth  of  some  hickory 
(stumps)  along  the  wall  on  the  top  of  this  hill,  —  so 
fine  I  did  not  count  quite  accurately. 

One  was  10  inches  in  diameter  with  104  rings 

"   "  l^  "        "  "   84  " 

"       "    llf   "  "  121     " 

I  think  that  the  oak  stumps  have  lasted  unusually 
long  on  this  hill,  on  account  of  their  having  originally 
grown  slowly  here  and  since  been  so  much  exposed  to 
the  light  and  air  over  and  amid  the  rocks. 

Nov.  14.  River  two  feet  four  inches  above  summer 
level  (and  at  height)  on  account  of  rain  of  10th  and  11th 
and  12th. 

The  red  maple  on  south  edge  of  Trillium  Wood  is 
six  feet  three  inches  in  circumference  at  three  feet. 

Yellow  butterflies  still. 

Almost  all  holes  in  and  about  stumps  have  nutshells 
or  nuts  in  them. 

Nov.  16.   This  and  yesterday  Indian-summer  days. 

P.  M.  —  To  Inches  Woods. 

Walked  over  these  woods  again,  —  first  from  Har- 
vard turnpike  at  where  Guggins  Brook  leaves  it,  which 
is  the  east  edge  of  the  old  wood,  due  north  along  near 
the  edge  of  the  wood,  and  at  last  more  northwest  along 
edge  to  the  cross-road,  a  strong  mile. 

*  Vide  account  of  pine  stump,  April  5,  1859. 
»  Have  this.    Vide  Nov.  19th. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


242 


JOURNAL 


[Nov.  16 


I  observe  that  the  black,  red,  and  scarlet  oaks  are 
generally  much  more  straight  and  perpendicular  than 
the  white,  and  not  branched  below.  The  white  oak  is 
much  oftener  branched  below  and  is  more  irregular,  — 
curved  or  knobby. 

The  first  large  erect  black  oak  measured  on  the  9th 
was  by  the  path  at  foot  of  hill  southeast  of  pigeon-place. 
Another,  more  north,  is  (all  at  three  feet  when  not 
otherwise  stated)  ten  and  a  half  [feet]  in  circumference. 

There  is  not  only  a  diflFerence  between  most  of  the 
white  oaks  within  Blood's  wood  and  the  pasture  oaks 
without,  —  the  former  having  a  very  finely  divided 
and  comparatively  soft  tawnyish  bark,  and  the  latter 
a  very  coarse  rugged  and  dark-colored  bark,  —  but 
there  is  here  a  similar  diflFerence  within  this  wood;  i.  e., 
some  of  the  white  oaks  have  a  hard,  rugged  bark,  in 
very  regular  oblong  squares  or  checkers  (an  agreeably 
regular  roughness  like  a  coat  of  mail),  while  others  have 
a  comparatively  finely  divided  and  soft  bark. 

I  see  one  white  oak  shaped  like  this:  — 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE   INCHES  WOODS  248 

It  happens  oftenest  here,  I  think,  that  the  very  largest 
white  oaks  have  the  most  horizontal  branches  and  branch 
nearest  the  ground,  which  would  at  first  suggest  that  these 
trees  were  a  diflFerent  variety  from  the  more  upright  and 
rather  smaller  ones,  but  it  may  be  that  these  are  older, 
and  for  that  reason  had  more  light  and  room  and  so 
temptation  to  spread  when  young. 
Northwesterly    from    pigeon-place     (near    base    of 

hill),- 

A  white  oak  6|  in  circumference 

"       "       "    8^ 

"       "       "    6^1 

The  last  one  grows  close  against  a  rock  (some  three 
feet  high),  and  it  has  grown  over  the  top  and  sides  of 
this  rock  to  the  breadth  of  twelve  and  eighteen  inches 
m  a  thin,  close-fitting,  saddle-like  manner,  very  remark- 
able and  showing  great  vigor  in  the  tree. 

Here,  too,  coming  to  water,  I  see  the  swamp  white 
oak  rising  out  of  it,  elm-like  in  its  bark  and  trunk.  Red 
maples  also  appear  here  with  them.  It  is  interesting 
to  see  thus  how  surely  the  character  of  the  ground  de- 
termines the  growth.  It  is  evident  that  in  a  wood  that 
has  been  let  alone  for  the  longest  period  the  greatest 
regularity  and  harmony  in  the  disposition  of  the  trees 
will  be  observed,  while  in  our  ordinary  woods  man  has 
often  interfered  and  favored  the  growth  of  other  kinds 
than  are  best  fitted  to  grow  there  naturally.  To  some, 
which  he  does  not  want,  he  allows  no  place  at  all. 

Hickories  occasionally  occur,  —  sometimes  scaly- 
barked,  if  not  shagbarks,  —  also  black  birch  and  a  few 
little  sugar  maples. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


244  JOURNAL  [Nov.  16 

Still  going  north,  a  white  pine  nine  feet  [in]  circum- 
ference. 

The  wood  at  the  extreme  north  end  (along  the  road) 
is  considerably  smaller.  After  proceeding  west  along 
the  road,  we  next  went  west  by  south  through  a  maple 
and  yellow  birch  swamp,  in  which  a  black  oak  eight  feet 
and  four  twelfths  [in]  circumference,  a  red  maple  six 
feet  and  a  half,  a  black  birch  seven  feet,  a  black  birch 
eight  feet.  And  in  the  extreme  northwesterly  part  of 
the  wood,  close  to  the  road,  are  many  large  chestnuts,  — 
one  eleven  and  three  quarters  feet  [in]  circumference 
with  many  great  knobs  or  excrescences,  another  twelve 
and  seven  twelfths. 

We  next  walked  across  the  open  land  by  the  road 
to  the  high  hill  northeast  of  Boxboro  Centre.  In  this 
neighborhood  are  many  very  large  chestnuts,  of  course 
related  to  the  chestnut  wood  just  named.  1st,  along 
this  road  just  over  the  north  wall,  beyond  a  new  house, 
one  13|^  feet  in  circumference;  2d,  16,  a  few  rods  more 
west  by  the  wall;  then,  perhaps  fifty  or  sixty  rods  more 
west  and  maybe  eight  or  ten  rods  north  from  the 
road,  along  a  wall,  the  3d,  15^;  and  then,  near  the 
road,  southwest  from  this,  the  4th,  15^  ;  and  some 
rods  further  north,  toward  hill  and  house  of  O.  and 
J.  Wetherbee,  the  5th,  IS^j^^ ;  then  northeast,  in  lower 
ground  (?),  the  6th,  16  feet,  at  ground  21§;  then,  near 
base  of  hill,  beyond  house,  the  7th,  16^  at  two  feet 
from  gfound ;  next,  some  rods  west  of  the  hill,  the  8th, 
17^  at  three  feet,  at  ground  23^;  and  then,  a  consider- 
able distance  north  and  further  down  the  hill,  the  9th, 
13^^.    (There  [were]  also  four  other  good-sized  chestnuts 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Old  Chestnut  Trees  on  a  Hilltop  in  Boxhoro 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


w 


^^,7- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860] 


THE  INCHES  WOODS 


245 


on  this  hillside,  with  the  last  three.)  Or  these  nine  trees 
averaged  about  15^  feet  in  circumference.  The  3d  tree 
had  a  limb  four  or  five  feet  from  the  ground,  which 
extended  horizontally  for  a  rod  toward  the  south,  de- 
clining a  little  toward  the  earth,  and  this  was  nine  feet 
in  circumference  about  eighteen  inches  from  the  tree. 
The  7th  had  a  lai^  limb  broken  off  at  one  foot  above 
the  ground  on  the  side,  whose  stump  prevented  measur- 
ing at  the  ordinary  height.  As  I  remember,  the  8th  was 
the  finest  tree. 

These  nine  (or  thirteen)  trees  are  evidently  the  relics 
of  one  chestnut  wood  of  which  a  part  remains  and  makes 
the  northwest  part  of  Inches  Wood,  and  the  trees  are  all 
within  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  southeast  and  north- 
west, the  first  two  being  by  themselves  at  the  southeast. 

The  chestnut  is  remarkable  for  branching  low,  occa- 
sionally so  low  that  you  cannot  pass  under  the  lower 
limb.  In  several  instances  a  lai^  limb  had  fallen  out 
on  one  side.  G)mmonly,  you 
see  great  rugged  strips  of  bark, 
like  straps  or  iron  clamps  made 
to  bind  the  tree  together,  three 
or  four  inches  wide  and  as  many 
feet  long,  running  more  or  less 
diagonally  across  the  trunk  and 
suggesting  a  very  twisted  grain, 
while  the  grain  of  the  recent  bark 
beneath  them  may  be  perpendicular.  Perhaps  this  may 
be  owing  to  old  portions  of  the  bark  which  still  adhere, 
being  wrenched  aside  by  the  unequal  growth  of  the 
wood.   I  think  that  all  these  old  trunks  show  this. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


246  JOURNAL  [Nov.  16 

Frank  Brown  tells  me  of  a  chestnut  in  his  neighbor- 
hood nineteen  feet  and  eight(  ? )  inches  in  circumference 
at  three  feet. 

White  oaks  within  a  wood  commonly,  at  Wetherbee's 
and  Blood's  woods,  have  lost  the  outside  rough  and 
rugged  bark  near  the  base,  like  a  jacket  or  vest  cast  off, 
revealing  that  peculiar  smooth  tawny-white  inner  gar- 
ment or  shirt.  Probably  the  moisture  aud  shade  of  a 
wood  softens  the  bark  and  causes  it  to  scale  off.  Ap- 
parently outside  trees  do  not  lose  this  outer  bark,  but 
it  becomes  far  more  rugged  and  dark  exposed  to  the 
light  and  air,  forming  a  strong  coat  of  mail  such  as 
they  need. 

Most  of  the  white  oaks  in  Inches  Wood  are  of  a  slight 
ashy  tinge  and  have  a  rather  loose,  scaly  bark,  but  the 
lai^r,  losing  this  below,  become  tawny-white.     ♦ 

Having  returned  into  Inches  Wood,  not  far  west  of 
the  meadow  (which  is  west  of  the  brook),  at  the  angle 
made  by  the  open  land,  a  black  oak  stump  recently 
cut,  about  one  foot  high  and  twenty-one  inches  in  diam- 
eter, had  only  one  hundred  and  six  rings.  A  white 
oak  only  nine  inches  in  diameter  near  by  had  eighty 
rings.  I  suspect  that  the  smaller  white  oaks  are  much 
older  comparatively  (with  the  large)  than  their  size 
would  indicate,  as  well  as  soimder  and  harder  wood.  A 
white  oak  at  three  feet,  six  and  one  half  in  circumfer- 
ence. A  black  oak  had  been  recently  cut  into  at  the 
west  base  of  Pigeon  Hill,  and  I  counted  about  eighty- 
five  rings  in  the  outside  three  inches.  The  tree  (wood 
only)  was  some  twenty-three  inches  in  diameter. 

Looking  at  this  wood  from  the  Boxboro  hill,  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  THE  INCHES   WOODS  247 

white  pines  appeared  to  be  confined  chiefly  to  the  higher 
land,  forming  a  ridge  from  north  to  south.  Young  white 
pines  have  very  generally  come  in  (a  good  many  being 
twenty  feet  high  or  more),  though  in  some  places  much 
more  abundantly  than  in  others,  all  over  this  oak  wood, 
though  not  high  enough  to  be  seen  at  a  distance  or  from 
hills  (except  the  first-named  larger  trees) ;  but  though 
there  are  very  many  large  pitch  pines  in  this  wood, 
especially  on  the  hills  or  moraines,  young  pitch  pines 
are. scarcely  to  be  seen.  I  saw  some  only  in  a  dell  on  the 
south  side  the  turnpike.  If  these  oaks  were  cut  off  with 
care,  there  would  very  soon  be  a  dense  white  pine  wood 
there.  The  white  pines  are  not  now  densely  planted, 
except  in  some  more  open  places,  but  come  up  strag- 
glingly  every  two  or  three  rods.  The  natural  succession 
is  rapidly  going  on  here,  and  as  fast  as  an  oak  falls,  its 
place  is  supplied  by  a  pine  or  two.  I  have  no  doubt  that, 
if  entirely  let  alone^  this  which  is  now  an  oak  wood 
would  have  become  a  white  pine  wood. 

Measured  on  the  map,  this  old  woodland  is  fully  a 
mile  and  a  half  long  from  north  to  south  —  one  mile 
being  north  [of]  the  turnpike  —  and  will  average  half  a 
mile  from  east  to  west.  Its  extreme  width,  measuring 
due  east  and  west,  is  from  Guggins  Brook  on  the  turn- 
pike to  the  first  church.  (It  runs  considerably  further 
southeast,  however,  on  to  the  high  hill.)  There  is  a 
considerable  tract  on  the  small  road  south  [of]  the  turn- 
pike covered  with  second  growth.  There  is,  therefore, 
some  four  hundred  acres  of  this  old  wood. 

There  is  a  very  little  beech  and  hemlock  and  yellow 
>birch  in  this  wood.    Many  large  black  birches  at  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


«48  JOURNAL  [Nov.  16 

northwest  end.  Chestnuts  at  the  northwest  and  south- 
east ends. 

The  bark  of  the  oaks  is  very  frequently  gnawed  near 
the  base  by  a  squirrel  or  other  animal. 

Guggins  Brook  unites  with  Heather  Meadow  Brook, 
and  then  with  Fort  Pond  Brook  just  this  side  of  West 
Acton,  and  thus  the  water  of  this  old  oak  wood  comes 
into  the  Assabet  and  flows  by  our  North  Bridge.  The 
seeds  of  whatever  trees  water  will  transport,  provided 
they  grow  there,  may  thus  be  planted  along  our  river. 

I  crossed  the  brook  in  the  midst  of  the  wood  where 
there  was  no  path,  but  four  or  five  large  stones  had  evi- 
dently been  placed  by  man  at  convenient  intervals  for 
stepping-stones,  and  possibly  this  was  an  old  Indian 
trail. 

You  occasionally  see  a  massive  old  oak  prostrate  and 
decaying,  rapidly  sinking  into  the  earth,  and  its  place 
is  evidently  supplied  by  a  pine  rather  than  an  oak. 

There  is  now  remarkably  little  life  to  be  seen  there. 
In  my  two  walks  I  saw  only  one  squirrel  and  a  chickadee. 
Not  a  hawk  or  a  jay.  Yet  at  the  base  of  very  many  oaks 
were'  acorn-shells  left,  by  the  squirrels.  In  a  perfectly 
round  hole  made  by  a  woodpecker  in  a  small  dead  oak 
five  feet  from  the  ground,  were  three  good  white  oak 
acorns  placed. 

In  the  midst  of  the  wood,  west  of  the  brook,  is  a 
natural  meadow,  —  t.  ^.  in  a  natural  state,  —  a  narrow 
strip  without  trees,  yet  not  very  wet.  Evidently  swamp 
white  oaks  and  maples  might  grow  there.  The  greater 
part  of  this  wood  is  strewn  with  large  rocks,  more  or  less 
flat  or  table-like,  very  handsomely  clothed  with  moss 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BLOOD'S  WOODS  249 

and  polypckly.  The  surface  of  the  ground  is  finely 
diversified,  there  being  hiUs,  deUs,  moraines,  meadows, 
swamps,  and  a  fine  brook  in  the  midst  of  all.  Some 
parts  are  very  thickly  strewn  with  rocks  (as  at  the 
northwest),  others  quite  free  from  them.  Nowhere  any 
monotony. 

It  is  very  pleasant,  as  you  walk  in  the  shade  below, 
to  see  the  cheerful  sunlight  reflected  from  the  maze  of 
oak  boughs  above.  They  would  be  a  fine  sight  after 
one  of  those  sticking  snows  in  the  winter. 

On  the  north  end,  also,  the  first  evidence  we  had  that 
we  were  coming  out  of  the  wood  —  approaching  its 
border  —  was  the  crowing  of  a  cock. 

Nov.  17.    P.  M.  —  To  Blood's  woods. 

Sawed  off  a  branch  of  creeping  juniper  two  inches 
[in]  diameter  with  fifteen  rings. 

On  one  square  of  nine  rods  in  Blood's  wood,  which 
seemed  more  dense  than  the  average,  are  thirteen 
sizable  trees.  This  would  give  about  two  hundred 
and  thirty  to  an  acre,  but  probably  there  are  not  more 
than  one  hundred  and  eighty  to  an  acre,  take  the  wood 
through.  This  is  but  little  more  than  one  to  a  square 
rod.  Yet  this  is  a  quite  dense  wood.  That  very  solid 
white  joak  stump  recently  sawed  in  this  wood  was  evi- 
dently a  seedling,  the  growth  was  so  extremely  slow 
at  first.  K  I  found  the  case  to  be  the  same  with  the 
other  oaks  here,  I  should  feel  sure  that  these  were  all 
seedlings  and  therefore  had  been  preceded  by  pines  or 
at  least  some  dense  evergreens,  or  possibly  birches. 
When  I  find  a  dense  oak  wood,  whether  sprouts  or 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


250  JOURNAL  [Nov.  17 

seedlings,  I  affirm  that  evergreens  once  stood  [there] 
and,  if  man  does  not  prevent,  will  grow  again.  This  I 
must  believe  until  I  find  a  dense  oak  wood  planted 
under  itself  or  in  open  land. 

Minot  Pratt's  elm  is  sixteen  and  a  quarter  feet  [in] 
circumference  at  three  feet. 

These  tawny-white  oaks  are  thus  by  their  color  and 
character  the  lions  among  trees,  or  rather,  not  to  com- 
pare them  with  a  foreign  animal,  they  are  the  cougars 
or  panthers  —  the  American  lions  —  among  the  trees, 
for  nearly  such  is  that  of  the  cougar  which  walks 
beneath  and  amid  or  springs  upon  them.  There  is 
plainly  this  harmony  between  the  color  of  our  chief  wild 
beast  of  the  cat  kind  and  our  chief  tree. 

How  they  do  things  in  West  Acton.  As  we  were 
walking  through  West  Acton  the  other  afternoon,  a 
few  rods  only  west  of  the  centre,  on  the  main  road,  the 
Harvard  turnpike,  we  saw  a  rock  larger  than  a  man 
could  lift,  lying  in  the  road,  exactly  in  the  wheel-track, 
and  were  puzzled  to  tell  how  it  came  there,  but  sup- 
posed it  had  slipped  off  a  drag,  —  yet  we  noticed  that  it 
was  peculiarly  black.  Returning  the  same  way  in  the 
twilight,  when  we  had  got  within  four  or  five  rods  of  this 
very  spot,  looking  up,  we  saw  a  man  in  the  field,  three 
or  four  rods  on  one  side  of  that  spot,  running  off  as 
fast  as  he  could.  By  the  time  he  had  got  out  of  sight 
over  the  hill  it  occurred  to  us  that  he  was  blasting  rocks 
and  had  just  touched  one  off;  so,  at  the  eleventh  hour, 
we  turned  about  and  ran  the  other  way,  and  when  we 
had  gone  a  few  rods,  off  went  two  blasts,  but  fortunately 
none  of  the  rocks  struck  us.    Some  time  after  we  had 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      A  BIT  OF  SHARP  PRACTICE  251 

passed  we  saw  the  men  returning.  They  looked  out  for 
themselves,  but  for  nobody  else.  This  is  the  way  they 
do  things  in  West  Acton.  We  now  understood  that  the 
big  stone  was  blackened  by  powder. 

Silas  Hosmer  tells  me  how  and  sold  the 

Heywood  lot  between  the  railroad  and  Fair  Haven. 
They  lotted  it  off  in  this  wise:  \>^y^yyv  VVyT^ 
i.  e,  in  triangles,  and,  carry-  vA/\7v\7v\7 
ing  plenty  of  liquor,  they  first  treated  all  round,  and 
then  proceeded  to  sell  at  auction,  but  the  purchasers, 
excited  with  liquor,  were  not  aware  when  the  stakes 
were  pointed  out  that  the  lots  were  not  as  broad  in  the 
rear  as  in  front,  and  the  wood  standing  cost  them  as 
much  as  it  should  have  done  delivered  at  the  door. 

I  frequently  see  the  heads  of  teasel,  called  fuller's 
thistle,  floating  on  our  river,  having  come  from  factories 
above,  and  thus  the  factories  which  use  it  may  distribute 
its  seeds  by  means  of  the  streams  which  turn  their 
machinery,  from  one  to  another.  The  one  who  first 
cultivated  the  teasel  extensively  in  this  town  is  said 
to  have  obtained  the  seed  when  it  was  not  to  be  pur- 
chased —  the  culture  being  monopolized  —  by  sweep- 
ing a  wagon  which  he  had  loaned  to  a  teasel-raiser. 

The  growth  of  very  old  trees,  as  appears  by  calculating 
the  bulk  of  wood  formed,  is  feebler  at  last  than  when  in 
middle  age,  or  say  in  pitch  pine  at  one  hundred  and 
sixty  than  at  forty  or  fifty,  especially  when  you  consider 
the  increased  number  of  leaves,  and  this,  together  with 
the  fact  that  old  stumps  send  up  no  shoots,  shows  that 
trees  are  not  indefinitely  long-lived. 

I  have  a  section  of  a  chestnut  sprout  —  and  not  at 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


252  JOURNAL  [Nov.  17 

all  a  rank  one  —  which  has  6  rings  in  the  first  inch,  or 
4  rings  in  five  eighths  of  an  inch,  but  a  section  of  a 
chestnut  seedling  has  10  rings  in  five  eighths  of  an  inch. 

A  section  of  a  white  oak  sprout,  far  from  rank,  has 
4  rings  in  first  five  eighths  of  an  inch;  of  a  seedling 
ditto,  16  or  17  in  first  five  eighths  of  an  inch;  of  a  seed- 
ling ditto,  8  — in  first  five  eighths  of  an  inch;  of  a  very 
slow-grown  sprout,  6  —  in  first  five  eighths  of  an  inch. 
Or  in  the  white  oaks  the  proportion  is  as  five  to  twelve. 

The  first  seedling  oak  has  the  rough  and  tawny  light- 
brown  bark  of  an  old  tree,  while  the  first  sprout  is  quite 
smooth-barked. 

A  seedling  white  birch  has  10  rings  in  first  seven 
eighths  of  an  inch. 

A  sprout  white  birch  has  5  rings  in  first  seven  eighths 
of  an  inch.  The  first  has  the  white  bark  of  an  old  tree; 
the  second,  a  smooth  and  reddish  bark. 

When  a  stump  is  sound  to  the  pith  I  can  commonly 
tell  whether  it  was  a  seedling  or  a  sprout  by  the  rapidity 
of  the  growth  at  first.  A  seedling,  it  is  true,  may  have 
died  down  many  tinaes  till  it  is  fifteen  or  twenty  years 
old,  and  so  at  last  send  up  a  more  vigorous  shoot  than  at 
first,  but  generally  the  difference  is  very  marked. 

Nov.  19.    P.  M.  —  To  Mt.  Misery. 

Saw  off  a  hickory  stump  which  is  scarcely  six  and  a 
half  inches  in  diameter  and  has  nearly  a  hundred  rings. 
(It  is  the  one  of  November  13th,  and  then  called  about 
115  ( ?  ? ).  Counting  it  now  in  the  evening,  I  make  92.) 
It  is  surprising  how  quickly  this  wood  decays.  This 
tree  was  cut  last  winter,  and  then  evidently  was  per- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  LITTLE  AUKS  253 

fectly  sound,  as  appears  from  the  surface,  but  on  sawing 
it  off  three  inches  lower  I  find  that  it  is  rotted  entirely 
through  and  is  soft  and  no  part  sound,  so  that  I  cannot 
count  it  on  the  new  face.  In  less  than  one  year  this 
stump  is  worthless,  even  for  fuel! 

I  look  again  at  the  old  oak  stumps  on  this  hill.  One 
evidently,  i,  e,  surely ,  a  sprout  (the  older  stump  beside 
it),  a  white  oak,  grew  nearly  If  inches  in  the  first 
twelve  years;  another  oak,  a  sprout  (with  older  stump). 
If  inches  in  the  first  eleven  or  twelve  years;  a  white 
oak  (without  an  older  stump).  If  inches  in  the  first 
twelve  years;  probably  the  last  a  sprout  also,  for,  as 
seen  on  last  page,  a  white  oak  seedling  grows  only  f 
of  an  inch  in  twelve  years.  There  was  also  a  hickory 
sprout  stump  of  the  same  age  with  the  others,  though 
of  course  the  old  stump  was  long  since  gone.  It  was 
plainly  seen  to  be  a  sprout  by  the  very  rapid  growth 
at  first  and  the  concave  form  of  one  side. 

My  rule  of  small  white  pines  under  pitch  pines  is  so 
true  of  E.  Hoar's  land  that  he  very  easily  got  a  hundred 
white  pines  there  to  set  by  his  house. 

Mr.  Bradshaw  says  that  he  got  a  little  auk  in  Wayland 
last  week,  and  heard  of  two  more,  one  in  Weston  and 
the  other  in  Natick.  Thinks  they  came  with  the  storm 
of  the  10th  and  11th. 

He  tells  me  of  a  small  oak  wood  of  old  trees  called 
More's,  half  a  mile  east  of  Wayland,  behind  the  grave- 
yard. 

Nov.  20.    P.  M.  —  To  R.  W.  E.'s  hill. 

I  see  a  pitch  pine  several  years  old  on  the  west  slope 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


254  JOURNAL  [Nov.  20 

of  the  railroad  embankment,  sixty  rods  by  pacing  from 
the  nearest  pitch  pine,  which  was  in  Trillium  Wood. 
I  have  seen  several  such.  This  tree  would  soon  sow  it- 
self in  our  yards  if  they  were  neglected. 

In  the  Moore  and  Hosmer  lot  which  I  surveyed  in 
'49-'50,  beyond  Heywood  meadow,  a  white  oak  stump 
ten  inches  [in]  diameter  with  seventy  rings  (cut  in  winter 
of  '49-'50),  evidently  a  sprout,  though  the  old  stump 
appears  to  have  been  entirely  overgrown  and  so  con- 
cealed. 

I  see,  on  the  southwest  or  railroad  side,  near  top, 
of  Emerson's  hill,  a  great  many  oak  stumps  (which  were 
sprouts)  with  the  older  stump  still  very  plain. 

One  (probably  black  oak)  with  35  rings  cut  some  2  years  =  37. 

Qji  ««  **  **  ««         «t  «»  «  ««        ««        ««        ^   orj 

Ql  t(  <«  ««  i«  «  ««  «t  <I  It  (I  ^_    QtJ 

(This  last  old  stump  being  small  and  almost  over- 
grown between  the  stumps  of  the  sprouts  and  seen  —  a 
sliver  of  it  —  in  a  hole  between  them.)  Also  lower 
down-hill,  toward  railroad,  old  chestnut  stumps  with  the 
stumps  of  sprouts  of  R.  W.  E.'s  cutting  twenty-five  to 
thirty  and  odd  years  old,  cut  some  dozen  years  ago; 
stumps,  then,  some  forty  years  old. 

Also,  on  the  pond  end  of  the  hilltop,  amid  the  piles 
of  stones,  where  I  suppose  was  a  pasture  once,  I  see  oak 
stumps  cut  just  thirty-eight  years  ago  beside  the  stumps 
of  their  sprouts  cut  last  winter,  and  here  are  many 
sprouts  coming  up  the  second  time;  but  on  the  other 
end  [of]  the  hill  I  notice  no  sprouts  the  second  time. 
There  were  many  oaks  where  these  piles  of  stone  are, 
some  seventy  or  eighty  years  ago,  then,  at  least,  and  I 


Digitized  by  Google 


1860]    COUNTING  RINGS  IN  STUMPS        ^55 

think  that  if  this  ever  was  a  pasture  they  must  have 
been  preceded  by  pines.  These  oak  stumps,  cut  about 
thirty-eight  years  ago,  are  quite  fresh,  especially  the 
white  oak  on  the  top  of  this  rocky  hill.  So  at  Mt. 
Misery.  Such  is  evidently  a  favorable  locality  for  their 
preservation.  Indeed,  it  is  very  common  to  see  oak 
stumps  forty  years  old  in  such  places.  They  are  the 
rule  here.  • 

Decidedly  finger-cold  to-night. 

Nov,  21.  If  you  cut  a  dense  mixed  wood  of  pine  and 
oak  in  which  no  little  pines  have  sown  themselves,  it  is 
evident  that  a  wood  exclusively  of  oak  sprouts  may 
succeed,  as  I  see  is  the  case  with  part  of  R.  W.  E.'s  hill- 
side toward  the  pond. 

I  see  a  little  pitch  pine  which  bore  a  cone  at  twenty- 
two  inches  from  the  ground  when  it  was  only  seven  or 
eight  years  old.  It  is  now  a  dozen  years  old  and  has 
borne  two  more  since,  and  scattered  the  seed. 

P.  M.  —  To  Fair  Haven  Hill. 

On  what  was  Stow's  lot,  southwest  the  Boiling 
Spring,  adjacent  to  Wheeler's  field,  I  count  the  rings 
of  four  oak  stumps  which  are  from  eighteen  to  twenty- 
two  inches  in  diameter.  They  are  all  about  120,  and 
the  oaks  are  evidently  all  from  the  seed.  This  was 
both  a  pine  and  oak  wood,  and  I  suspect  that  about 
one  hundred  and  twenty  years  [ago]  pines  were  cut 
or  burned  or  blown  down  or  decayed  there  and  these 
oaks  succeeded.  These  stumps  are  now  in  the  very 
best  condition  for  counting,  having  been  cut  nine  or 
ten  years  ago.    But  not  so  with  the  pitch  pine  stumps 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


^56  JOURNAL  [Nov.  21 

(one  is  twenty-three  inches  in  diameter)  cut  about 
a  year  later  on  what  was  R.  Brown's,  higher  up.  Their 
sap  and  more  is  covered  with  green  and  red  cockspur 
lichens  so  thickly  you  cannot  see  the  rings.  On  this 
lot  (now  open  Wheeler  lot)  are  not  only  these  old  pitch 
pine  stumps  (a  few),  but  the  stumps  of  oak  sprouts 
forty-four  years  old,  with  the  older  stumps  by  their 
side,  or  half  overgrown,  fet  quite  plain,  which  last  there 
were  cut  (44  +  9  =  )  53  years  ago.  No  sprouts  from 
them. 

In  early  times  probably  less  wood  was  cut  at  once; 
commonly  only  the  winter's  wood  for  the  owners'  use. 
This  Brown  lot  was  variously  treated  apparently. 

See  young  beeches  near  the  upper  edge  of  Stow's, 
about  midway  on  Wheeler,  near  where  some  stones 
have  been  hauled  into  Stow's  from  Wheeler's  land. 

Another  finger-cold  evening,  which  I  improve  in 
pulling  my  turnips  —  the  usual  amusement  of  such 
weather  —  before  they  shall  be  frozen  in.  It  is  worth 
the  while  to  see  how  green  and  lusty  they  are  yet, 
still  adding  to  their  stock  of  nutriment  for  another 
year;  and  between  the  green  and  also  withering  leaves 
it  does  me  good  to  see  their  great  crimson  round  or 
scalloped  tops,  sometimes  quite  above  ground,  they  are 
so  bold.  They  remind  you  of  rosy  cheeks  in  cool  weather, 
and  indeed  there  is  a  relationship.  All  kinds  of  har- 
vestry,  even  pulling  turnips  when  the  first  cold  weather 
numbs  your  fingers,  are  interesting,  if  you  have  been 
the  sower,  and  have  not  sown  too  many. 

Got  a  section  to-day  of  a  white  cedar  railroad  sleeper 
which  I  am  told  came  from  the  eastward  and  was 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  RAILROAD   SLEEPERS  257 

brought  up  from  Charlestown.  First  count  gives  254 
rings;  second,  on  opposite  side,  where  the  centre  is 
less  plain,  246  rings;  average,  250.  Its  diameter  is 
16^  inches,  or  neariy  31  rings  to  an  inch.  This  is  the 
oldest,  as  well  as  slowest-growing,  tree  that  I  have 
counted  the  rings  of.  I  see  other  sleepers  neariy  as 
old.  Some  smaller,  or  say  lOj  inches  in  diameter,  had 
125  rings  in  the  first  three  inches  and  then  grew  much 
faster;  as  if  they  were  at  first  part  of  a  very  dense 
thicket  and  grew  very  slowly,  but  afterward,  prevailing 
over  the  rest,  grew  faster.  This  sleeper  had,  of  course, 
been  cut  a  year  at  least.  It  may  not  have  been  the  butt 
end  of  the  log,  or  at  any  rate  it  must  have  been  several 
years  old  before  it  reached  the  height  at  which  it  was 
cut,  so  that  it  must  have  begun  to  exist  before  the  set- 
tlement of  Jamestown.  It  was  a  flourishing  young 
cedar  of  at  least  some  fifteen  summers  when  the  Pil- 
grims came  over.  Thus  the  cars  on  our  railroad,  and 
all  their  passengers,  roll  over  the  trunks  of  trees  sleep- 
ing beneath  them  which  were  planted  years  before  the 
first  white  man  settled  in  New  England. 

Nov.  22.  P.  M.  —  To  northwest  part  of  Sudbury. 

The  Linaria  Canadensis  is  still  freshly  blooming. 
It  is  the  freshest  flower  I  notice  now. 

Considerable  ice,  lasting  all  day,  on  the  river  meadows 
and  cold  pools. 

I  measure  the  stump  of  that  white  pine  which  I  used 
to  see  on  the  Marlborough  road.  It  is  thirty  inches  in 
diameter  and  has  85  rings. 

There  are  two  small  clumps  of  laurel  close  to  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


258  JOURNAL  [Nov.  22 

left  side  this  road,  by  the  woods,  just  this  side  the  Sud- 
bury line,  going  to  Maynard's. 

Here  is  a  dense  oak  wood.  I  see  many  little  white 
pines  sprung  up  along  its  edge  in  the  road,  but  scarcely 
one  within  the  wood.  They,  too,  want  light  and  air, 
though  not  so  much  as  the  pitch  pine. 

All  the  soimd  white  oak  acorns  that  I  see  now  have 
sprouted,  and  many  have  sent  a  root  down  into  the 
earth.  This"  is  often  four  inches  long.  But  I  see  no 
black  nor  scarlet  nor  red  oak  acorns  sprouted,  though 
I  find  sound  ones.  The  white  are  evidently  very  much 
more  sensitive  and  tender  than  they. 

This  is  a  very  beautiful  November  day,  —  a  cool  but 
clear,  crystalline  *  air,  through  which  even  the  white 
pines  with  their  silvery  sheen  are  an  affecting  sight.  It 
is  a  day  to  behold  and  to  ramble  over  the  hard  (stiffen- 
ing) and  withered  surface  of  the  tawny  earth.  Every 
plant's  down  glitters  with  a  silvery  light  along  the 
Marlborough  road,  —  the  sweet-fern,  the  lespedeza, 
and  bare  blueberry  twigs,  to  say  nothing  of  the  weather- 
worn tufts  of  Andropogon  scopariiLS,  A  thousand  bare 
twigs  gleam  like  cobwebs  in  the  sun.  '  I  rejoice  in  the 
bare,  bleak,  hard,  and  barren-looking  surface  of  the 
tawny  pastures,  the  firm  outline  of  the  hills,  so  con- 
venient to  walk  over,  and  the  air  so  bracing  and 
wholesome.  Though  you  are  finger-cold  toward  night, 
and  you  cast  a  stone  on  to  your  first  ice,  and  see  the 
immelted  crystals  under  every  bank,  it  is  glorious 
November  weather,  and  only  November  fruits  are  out. 
On  some  hickories  you  see  a  thousand  black  nuts 
against  the  sky. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    A  BEAUTIFUL  NOVEMBER  DAY      259 

There  is  quite  a  white  cedar  swamp  behind  the  old 
tavern  south  of  Maynard's. 

You  walk  fast  and  far,  and  every  apple  left  out  is 
grateful  to  your  invigorated  taste.  You  enjoy  not  only 
the  bracing  coolness,  but  all  the  heat  and  sunlight  that 
there  is,  reflected  back  to  you  from  the  earth.  The 
sandy  road  itself,  lit  by  the  November  sun,  is  beauti- 
ful. Shrub  oaks  and  young  oaks  generally,  and  hazel 
bushes  and  other  hardy  shrubs,  now  more  or  less  bare, 
are  your  companions,  as  if  it  were  an  iron  age,  yet  in 
simplicity,  innocence,  and  strength  a  golden  one. 

(Day  before  yesterday  the  rustling  of  the  withered 
oak  leaves  in  the  wind  reminded  me  of  the  similar  sound 
produced  by  snow  falling  on  them.) 

It  is  glorious  to  consider  how  independent  man  is 
of  all  enervating  luxuries;  and  the  poorer  he  is  in  re- 
spect to  them,  the  richer  he  is.  Summer  is  gone  with  all 
its  infinite  wealth,  and  still  nature  is  genial  to  man. 
Though  he  no  longer  bathes  in  the  stream,  or  reclines 
on  the  bank,  or  plucks  berries  on  the  hills,  still  he  beholds 
the  same  inaccessible  beauty  around  him.  What  though 
he  has  no  juice  of  the  grape  stored  up  for  him  in  cellars; 
the  air  itself  is  wine  of  an  older  vintage,  and  far  more 
sanely  exhilarating,  than  any  cellar  affords.  It  is  ever 
some  gouty  senior  and  not  a  blithe  child  that  drinks, 
or  cares  for,  that  so  famous  wine. 

Though  so  many  phenomena  which  we  lately  admired 
have  now  vanished,  others  are  more  remarkable  and  in- 
teresting than  before.  The  smokes  from  distant  chim- 
neys, not  only  greater  because  more  fire  is  required,  but 
more  distinct  in  the  cooler  atmosphere,  are  a  very  pleasing 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


260  JOURNAL  [Nov.  22 

sight,  and  conduct  our  thoughts  quickly  to  the  roof  and 
hearth  and  family  beneath,  revealing  the  homes  of  men. 

Maynard's  yard  and  frontage,  and  all  his  bams  and 
fences,  are  singularly  neat  and  substantial,  and  the 
highroad  is  in  efiFect  converted  into  a  private  way 
through  his  grounds.  It  suggests  unspeakable  peace  and 
happiness.  Yet,  strange  to  tell,  I  noticed  that  he  had  a 
tiger  instead  of  a  cock  for  a  vane  on  his  bam,  and  he 
himself  looked  overworked.  He  had  allowed  the  sur- 
viving forest  trees  to  grow  into  ancestral  trees  about 
his  premises,  and  so  attach  themselves  to  him  as  if  he 
had  planted  them.  The  dusty  highway  was  so  sub- 
dued that  it  seemed  as  if  it  were  lost  there.  He  had  all 
but  stretched  a  bar  across  it.  Each  traveller  must  have 
felt  some  misgivings,  as  if  he  were  trespassing. 

However,  the  farmer's  life  expresses  only  such  con- 
tent as  an  ox  in  his  yard  chewing  the  cud. 

What  though  your  hands  are  numb  with  cold,  your 
sense  of  enjoyment  is  not  benumbed.  You  cannot  now 
find  an  apple  but  it  is  sweet  to  taste. 

Simply  to  see  to  a  distant  horizon  through  a  clear 
air,  —  the  fine  outline  of  a  distant  hill  or  a  blue  moun- 
tain-top through  some  new  vista,  —  this  is  wealth 
enough  for  one  aftemoon. 

We  journeyed  into  the  foreign  land  of  Sudbury  to  see 
how  the  Sudbury  men  — the  Hayneses,  and  the  Puffers, 
and  the  Brighams  —  live.  We  traversed  their  pastures 
and  their  wood-lots,  and  were  home  again  at  night. 

Nov.  23.  George  Minott  tells  me  that  sixty  years  ago 
wood  was  only  two  or  three  dollars  a  cord  here  —  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  FRUITS,  NATIVE  AND  TROPICAL      261 

some  of  that  hickory.  Remembers  when  Peter  Wheeler, 
sixty  or  more  years  ago,  cut  off  all  at  once  over  a  hun- 
dred acres  of  wood  stretching  from  Flint's  Pond  to 
Goose  Pond,  —  since  cut  again  in  part  by  Britton,  and 
owned  now  partly  by  the  Stows. 

Most  of  us  are  still  related  to  our  native  fields  as  the 
navigator  to  undiscovered  islands  in  the  sea.  We  can 
any  autunm  discover  a  new  fruit  there  which  will  sur- 
prise us  by  its  beauty  or  sweetness.  So  long  as  I  saw 
one  or  two  kinds  of  berries  in  my  walks  whose  names  I 
did  not  know,  the  proportion  of  the  unknown  seemed 
indefinitely  if  not  infinitely  great. 

Famous  fruits  imported  from  the  tropics  and  sold  in 
our  markets  —  as  oranges,  lemons,  pineapples,  and 
bananas  —  do  not  concern  me  so  much  as  many  an 
unnoticed  wild  berry  whose  beauty  annually  lends  a 
new  charm  to  some  wild  walk,  or  which  I  have  foimd 
to  be  palatable  to  an  outdoor  taste. 

The  tropical  fruits  are  for  those  who  dwell  within  the 
tropics;  their  fairest  and  sweetest  parts  cannot  be  ex- 
ported nor  imported.  Brought  here,  they  chiefly  concern 
those  whose  walks  are  through  the  market-place.  It  is 
not  the  orange  of  Cuba,  but  the  checkerberry  of  the 
neighboring  pasture,  that  most  delights  the  eye  and  the 
palate  of  the  New  England  child.  What  if  the  Concord 
Social  Club,  instead  of  eating  oranges  from  Havana, 
should  spend  an  hour  in  admiring  the  beauty  of  some 
wild  berry  from  their  own  fifelds  which  they  never 
attended  to  before  ?  It  is  not  the  foreignness  or  size  or 
nutritive  qualities  of  a  fruit  that  determine  its  absolute 
value. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


262  JOURNAL  [Nov.  23 

It  is  not  those  far-fetched  fruits  which  the  speculator 
imports  that  concerns  us  chiefly,  but  rather  those 
which  you  have  fetched  yourself  in  your  basket  from 
some  far  hill  or  swamp,  journeying  all  the  long  after- 
noon in  the  hold  of  a  basket,  consigned  to  your  friends 
at  home,  the  first  of  the  season. 

We  cultivate  imported  shrubs  in  our  front  yards  for 
the  beauty  of  their  berries,  when  yet  more  beautiful 
berries  grow  unregarded  by  us  in  the  surrounding  fields. 

As  some  beautiful  or  palatable  fruit  is  perhaps  the 
noblest  gift  of  nature  to  man,  so  is  a  fruit  with  which  a 
man  has  in  some  measure  identified  himself  by  culti- 
vating or  collecting  it  one  of  the  most  suitable  presents 
to  a  friend.  It  was  some  compensation  for  Commodore 
Porter,  who  may  have  introduced  some  cannon-balls  and 
bombshells  into  ports  where  they  were  not  wanted,  to 
have  introduced  the  Valparaiso  squash  into  the  United 
States.    I  think  that  this  eclipses  his  military  glory. 

As  I  sail  the  unexplored  sea  of  Concord,  many  a  dell 
and  swamp  and  wooded  hill  is  my  Ceram  and  Amboyna. 

At  first,  perchance,  there  would  be  an  abundant  crop 
of  rank  garden  weeds  and  grasses  in  the  cultivated  land, 
—  and  rankest  of  all  in  the  cellar-holes,  —  and  of  pin- 
weed,  hardback,  sumach,  blackberry,  thimble-berry, 
raspberry,  etc.,  in  the  fields  and  pastures.  Elm,  ash, 
maples,  etc.,  would  grow  vigorously  along  old  garden 
limits  and  main  streets.  Garden  weeds  and  grasses 
would  soon  disappear.  Huckleberry  and  blueberry 
bushes,  lambkill,  hazel,  sweet-fern,  barberry,  elder, 
also  shad-bush,  choke-berry,  andromeda,  and  thorns. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  SPROUTED  ACORNS  263 

etc.,  would  rapidly  prevail  in  the  deserted  pastures.  At 
the  same  time  the  wild  cherries,  birch,  poplar,  willows, 
checkerberry  would  reestablish  themselves.  Finally  the 
pines,  hemlock,  spruce,  larch,  shrub  oak,  oaks,  chestnut, 
beech,  and  walnuts  would  occupy  the  site  of  Concord 
once  more.  The  apple  and  perhaps  all  exotic  trees  and 
shrubs  and  a  great  part  of  the  indigenous  ones  named 
above  would  have  disappeared,  and  the  laurel  and  yew 
would  to  some  extent  be  an  underwood  here,  and  per- 
chance the  red  man  once  more  thread  his  way  through 
the  mossy,  swamp-like,  primitive  wood. 

Nov,  24.    P.  M.  —  To  Easterbrooks's. 

Under  the  two  white  oaks  by  the  second  wall  south- 
east of  my  house,  on  the  east  side  the  wall,  I  am  sur- 
prised to  find  a  great  many  sound  acorns  still,  though 
every  one  is  sprouted,  —  frequently  more  than  a  dozen 
on  the  short  sward  within  a  square  foot,  each  with  its 
radicle  two  inches  long  penetrated  into  the  earth.  But 
many  have  had  their  radicle  broken  or  eaten  off,  and 
many  have  it  now  dead  and  withered.  So  far  as  my 
observation  goes  there,  by  far  the  greatest  number  of 
white  oak  acorns  were  destroyed  by  decaying  (whether 
in  consequence  of  frost  or  wet),  both  before  and  soon 
after  falling.  Not  nearly  so  many  have  been  carried 
off  by  squirrels  and  birds  or  consumed  by  grubs,  though 
the  number  of  acorns  of  all  kinds  lying  under  the  trees 
is  now  comparatively  small  to  what  it  was  early  in 
October. 

It  is  true  these  two  trees  are  exceptions  and  I  do 
not  find  sound  ones  nearly  as  numerous  under  others. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


264  JOURNAL  [Nov.  24 

Nevertheless,  the  sound  white  oak  acorns  are  not  so 
generally  and  entirely  picked  up  as  I  supposed.  However, 
there  are  a  great  many  more  shells  or  cups  than  acorns 
under  the  trees;  even  under  these  two  trees,  I  think, 
there  are  not  more  than  a  third  as  many  of  any  kind  — 
sound  or  hollow  —  as  there  were,  and  generally  those 
that  remain  are  a  very  small  fraction  of  what  there  were. 
It  will  be  worth  the  while  to  see  how  many  of  these 
sprouted  acorns  are  left  and  are  sound  in  the  spring. 
It  is  remarkable  that  all  sound  white  oak  acorns  (and 
many  which  are  not  now  sound)  are  sprouted,  and  that 
I  have  noticed  no  other  kind  sprouted,  —  though  I  have 
not  seen  the  chestnut  oak  and  little  chinquapin  at  all. 
It  remains  to  be  seen  how  many  of  the  above  will  be 
picked  up  by  squirrels,  etc.,  or  destroyed  by  frost  and 
grubs  in  the  winter. 

The  first  spitting  of  snow  —  a  flurry  or  squall  — 
from  out  a  gray  or  slate-colored  cloud  that  came  up 
from  the  west.  This  consisted  almost  entirely  of  pellets 
an  eighth  of  an  inch  or  less  in  diameter.  These  drove 
along  almost  horizontally,  or  curving  upward  like  the 
outline  of  a  breaker,  before  the  strong  and  chilling 
wind.  The  plowed  fields  were  for  a  short  time  whitened 
with  them.  The  green  moss  about  the  bases  of  trees  was 
very  prettily  spotted  white  with  them,  and  also  the 
large  beds  of  cladonia  in  the  pastures.  They  come  to 
contrast  with  the  red  cockspur  lichens  on  the  stumps, 
which  you  had  not  noticed  before.  Striking  against  the 
trunks  of  the  trees  on  the  west  side  they  fell  and  accumu- 
lated in  a  white  line  at  the  base.  Though  a  slight  touch, 
this  was  the  first  wintry  scene  of  the  season.   The  air 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A   BOY'S  BOX  TRAP  265 

was  so  filled  with  these  snow  pellets  that  we  could  not 
see  a  hill  half  a  mile  off  for  an  hour.  The  hands  seek 
the  warmth  of  the  pockets,  and  fingers  are  so  benumbed 
that  you  cannot  open  your  jack-knife.  The  rabbits  in 
the  swamps  enjoy  it,  as  well  as  you.  Methinks  the  winter 
gives  them  more  liberty,  like  a  night.  I  see  where  a  boy 
has  set  a  box  trap  and  baited  it  with  half  an  apple,  and, 
a  mile  off,  come  across  a  snare  set  for  a  rabbit  or  par- 
tridge in  a  cow-path  in  a  pitch  pine  wood  near  where 
the  rabbits  have  nibbled  the  apples  which  strew  the 
wet  ground.  How  pitiable  that  the  most  that  many  see 
of  a  rabbit  should  be  the  snare  that  some  boy  has  set 
for  one! 

The  bitter-sweet  of  a  white  oak  acorn  which  you 
nibble  in  a  bleak  November  walk  over  the  tawny  earth 
is  more  to  me  than  a  slice  of  imported  pineapple.  We 
do  not  think  much  of  table-fruits.  They  are  especially 
for  aldermen  and  epicures.  They  do  not  feed  the  imagi- 
nation. That  would  starve  on  them.  These  wild  fruits, 
whether  eaten  or  not,  are  a  dessert  for  the  imagination. 
The  south  may  keep  her  pineapples,  and  we  will  be 
content  with  our  strawberries. 

Nmh  25.  I  count  the  rings  in  a  spruce  plank  from  the 
railroad  bridge,  which  extend  five  and  a  half  inches 
from  the  centre  of  the  tree,  and  make  them  146,  —  ^  + 
to  a  ring.  This  is  slower  growth  than  I  find  in  a  black 
spruce  to-day  at  — 

Ministerial  Swamp,  P.  M.  —  It  is  lOj  feet  high, 
2i  inches  [in]  diameter  just  above  ground,  and  has 
21  rings,  ^  inch  to  a  ring.    A  larch  near  by  is  21  feet 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


266  JOURNAL  [Nov.  25 

high,  2^1  inches  [in]  diameter,  and  has  20  rings,  which 
makes  ^+to  a  ring.  The  larch  has  made  nearly  twice 
as  much  wood  as  the  spruce  in  the  same  time. 

The  cones  of  the  spruce  which  I  see  are  still  closed. 
A  few  sugar  maple  seeds  still  hang  on. 

Last  night  and  to-day  are  very  cold  and  blustering. 
Winter  weather  has  come  suddenly  this  year.  The 
house  was  shaken  by  wind  last  night,  and  there  was  a 
general  deficiency  of  bedclothes.  This  morning  some 
windows  were  as  handsomely  covered  with  frost  as  ever 
in  winter.  I  wear  mittens  or  gloves  and  my  greatcoat. 
There  is  much  ice  on  the  meadows  now,  the  broken 
edges  shining  in  the  sun.  Now  for  the  phenomena  of 
winter,  —  the  red  buds  of  the  high  blueberry  and  the 
purple  berries  of  the  smilax. 

As  I  go  up  the  meadow-side  toward  Clamshell,  I  see 
a  very  great  collection  of  crows  far  and  wide  on  the 
meadows,  evidently  gathered  by  this  cold  and  bluster- 
ing weather.  Probably  the  moist  meadows  where  they 
feed  are  frozen  up  against  them.  They  flit  before  me  in 
countless  numbers,  flying  very  low  on  account  of  the 
strong  northwest  wind  that  comes  over  the  hill,  and  a 
cold  gleam  is  reflected  from  the  back  and  wings  of  each, 
as  from  a  weather-stained  shingle.  Some  perch  within 
three  or  four  rods  of  me,  and  seem  weary.  I  see  where 
they  have  been  pecking  the  apples  by  the  meadow-side. 
An  immense  cohort  of  cawing  crows  which  sudden 
winter  has  driven  near  to  the  habitations  of  man. 
When  I  return  after  sunset  I  see  them  collecting  and 
hovering  over  and  settling  in  the  dense  pine  woods  west 
of  E.  Wood's,  as  if  about  to  roost  there.    Yesterday  I 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  SEEDLING   WHITE  PINES  267 

saw  one  flying  over  the  house,  its  wings  so  curved  by 
the  wind  that  I  thought  it  a  black  hawk. 
''llow  is  any  scientific  discovery  made  ?  Why,  the  dis- 
coverer takes  it  into  his  head  first.  He  must  all  but  see  it. 
I  see  several  little  white  pines  in  Hosmer's  meadow 
just  beyond  Lupine  Hill,  which  must  have  sprung  from 
seed  which  came  some  fifty  rods,  —  probably  blown 
so  far  in  the  fall..  There  are  also  a  few  in  the  road  beyond 
Dennis's,  which  probably  were  blown  from  his  swamp 
wood.  So  that  there  is  nothing  to  prevent  their  spring- 
ing up  all  over  the  village  in  a  very  few  years  —  but  our 
own  plows  and  spades.  They  have  also  come  up  quite 
numerously  in  the  young  woodland  north  of  J.  P.  B.'s 
Cold  Pool  (probably  blown  from  the  wood  south  of  the 
pond),  though  they  are  evidently  half  a  dozen  years 
younger  than  the  oaks  there.  I  look  at  this  large  white 
pine  wood  by  the  pool  to  see  if  little  ones  come  up  under 
it.  What  was  recently  pasture  comes  up  within  a  rod  of 
this  high  wood  on  the  north  side,  and,  though  the  fence 
is  gone,  the  different  condition  and  history  of  the  ground 
is  very  apparent  by  the  diflferent  aspect  of  the  little  pines. 
There  the  old  white  pines  are  dense,  and  there  are  no 
little  ones  under  them,  but  only  a  rod  north  they  are 
very  abundant,  forming  a  dense  thicket  only  two  or 
three  feet  high  bounded  by  a  straight  line  on  the  south 
(or  east  and  west),  where  the  edge  of  the  open  land 
was  within  a  rod  of  the  great  pines.  Here  they  sprang 
up  abundantly  in  the  open  land  close  by,  but  not  at  all 
under  the  pines.  Yet  within  the  great  wood,  wherever 
it  is  more  open  from  any  cause,  I  see  a  great  many 
little  pines  springing  up.     Though  they  are  thin  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


268  JOURNAL  [Nov.  25 

feeble  comparatively,  yet  most  of  them  will  evidently 
come  to  be  trees.  White  pines  will  spring  up  in  the  more 
open  parts  of  a  white  pine  wood,  even  under  pines, 
though  they  are  thin  and  feeble  just  in  proportion  to  the 
density  of  the  larger  pines,  and,  where  the  large  trees 
are  quite  dense,  they  will  not  spring  up  at  all. 

How  commonly  you  see  pitch  pines,  white  pines,  and 
birches  filling  up  a  pasture,  and,  when  they  are  a  dozen 
or  fifteen  years  old,  shrub  and  other  oaks  beginning  to 
show  themselves,  inclosing  apple  trees  and  walls  and 
fences  gradually  and  so  changing  the  whole  aspect  of 
the  region.  These  trees  do  not  cover  the  whole  surface 
equally  at  present,  but  are  grouped  very  agreeably 
after  natural  laws  which  they  obey.  You  remember, 
perhaps,  that  fifteen  years  ago  there  was  not  a  single 
tree  in  this  pasture,  —  not  a  germinating  seed  of  one,  — 
and  now  it  is  a  pretty  dense  forest  ten  feet  high.  I  con- 
fess that  I  love  to  be  convinced  of  this  inextinguishable 
vitality  in  Nature.  I  would  rather  that  my  body  should 
be  buried  in  a  soil  thus  wide-awake  than  in  a  mere 
inert  and  dead  eartbt  The  cow-paths,  the  hollows  where 
I  slid  in  the  winter,  the  rocks,  are  fast  being  enveloped 
and  becoming  rabbit-walks  and  hollows  and  rocks  in 
the  woods. 

How  often  you  make  a  man  richer  in  spirit  in  pro- 
portion as  you  rob  him  of  earthly  luxuries  and  com- 
forts! 

'     I  see  much  oak  wood  cut  at  thirty  years  of  age,  — 
sprout  wood. 

Many  stumps  which  have  only  twenty-five  or  thirty 
rings  send  up  no  shoots,  because  they  are  the  sprouts 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  PITCH   PINES 

from  old  stumps,  which  you  may  still  see  by  their  sides, 
and  so  are  really  old  trees  and  exhausted.  The  chopper 
should  foresee  this  when  he  cuts  down  a  wood. 

The  bass  by  Dugan's  cut  a  year  ago.  It  is  hard  to 
coimt,  so  indistinct  its  rings,  but  I  make  46  to  50  in  a 
diameter  of  some  twenty  inches.  The  sprouts  are 
quite  peculiar,  so  light  an  ash-color  with  red  tips  and 
large  blunt  red  buds. 

The  old  pitch  pines  (vide  back  two  or  three  weeks) 
one  hundred  and  sixty  years  old,  that  stood  on  the  south 
side  of  the  Tommy  Wheeler  hollow,  '^ere  twenty-three 
in  number  on  a  space  about  twelve  rods  by  three  (or 
thirty-six  rods),  with  half  a  dozen  white  pines  and  as 
many  oaks,  the  last  two  say  twenty  to  fifty  years  younger 
than  the  pitch  pines.  Probably  some  of  the  pitch  pines 
have  died  and  left  no  trees,  so  that  it  may  originally 
have  been  a  pretty  dense  grove  of  pitch  pines.  There 
were  as  many  more  pitch  pines  (not  to  mention  the  oaks 
and  white  pines)  on  the  other  side  of  the  hollow.  These 
were  on  a  slope  toward  the  north.  Now,  four  years  after 
they  were  cut,  this  hillside  is  covered  with  hazel  bushes, 
huckleberries,  young  oaks,  red  maples.  Viburnum 
nudum,  and  a  few  little  white  pines,  but  the  hollow  be- 
low them  has  little  beside  grass  (fine  sedge)  in  it.  It  will 
be  long  before  anything  catches  there.  It  is  remarkable 
that  no  pitch  pines  grew  there  before,  nor  oaks,  and 
very  few  white  pines,  which  were  the  only  trees  there. 

Some  pitch  pines  have  shed  their  seeds. 

Nov.  26.    P.  M.  —  To  E.  Hubbard's  Wood. 

I  see  in  the  open  field  east  of  Trillium  Wood  a  few 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


270  JOURNAL  [Nov.  26 

pitch  pines  springing  up,  from  seeds  blown  from  the 
wood  a  dozen  or  fifteen  rods  off.  Here  is  one  just 
noticeable  on  the  sod  —  though  by  most  it  would  be 
mistaken  for  a  i^ingle  sprig  of  moss  —  which  came 
from  the'  seed  this  year.  It  is,  as  it  were,  a  little  green 
star  with  many  rays,  half  an  inch  in  diameter,  lifted  an 
inch  and  a  half  above  the  groimd  on  a  slender  stem. 
What  a  feeble  beginning  for  so  long-lived  a  tree!  By 
the  next  fall  it  will  be  a  star  of  greater  magnitude,  and 
in  a  few  years,  if  not  disturbed,  these  seedlings  will  alter 
the  face  of  nature  "here.  How  significant,  how  ominous, 
the  presence  of  these  green  moss-like  stars  is  to  the 
grass,  heralding  its  doom!  Thus  from  pasture  this  por- 
tion of  the  earth's  surface  becomes  forest.  These  which 
are  now  mistaken  for  mosses  in  the  grass  may  become 
lofty  trees  which  will  endure  two  hundred  years,  under 
which  no  vestige  of  this  grass  will  be  left. 

In  Hubbard's  Wood  at  north  end  I  measure  the 
stump  of  either  a  red  or  black  oak :  21  inches  [in]  diam- 
eter and  141  rings. 

I  examine  quite  a  number  of  oak  stumps  thereabouts 
and  find  them  all  seedlings.  This,  of  course,  must  be 
the  case  with  old  forests  generally,  for  in  the  beginning 
the  trees  were  not  cut. 

A  red  oak  about  in  middle  of  the  wood  6  J  feet  dreumference  at  3  ft. 
A    canoe    birch,  45  inches  **  "  " " 

Another"      "  45i    " 

A  white  oak  on  the  east 
side  rather  toward  south,  7  feet  " 


«      (C    « 


«     ««    (C 


Some  of  the  white  oaks  have  a  very  loose  scaly  bark, 
commencing  half  a  dozen  feet  from  the  ground.    I  see 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1860]  PITCH  PINES  271 

pitch  pine  bark  four  to  five  inches  thick  at  the  ground. 
There  are  in  this  wood  many  little  groves  of  white 
pines  two  to  four  feet  high,  quite  dense  and  green,  but 
these  are  in  more  open  spaces,  and  are  vigorous  just  in 
proportion  to  the  openness.  There  are  also  seedling 
oaks  and  chestnuts  ten  to  thirty  years  old,  yet  not 
nearly  so  numerous  as  the  pines.  The  large  wood  is 
mixed  oak  and  pine,  —  more  oak  at  the  north  and  more 
pine,  especially  pitch  pine,  at  the  south.  The  prospect 
is  that  in  course  of  time  the  white  pines  will  very  greatly 
prevail  over  all  other  trees  here.  This  is  also  the  case 
with  Inches',  Blood's,  and  Wetherbee's  woods. 

If  I  am  not  mistaken,  an  evidence  of  more  openness 
where  the  little  pines  are  is  to  be  found  in  the  greater 
prevalence  of  pyrola  and  lycopodiums  there.  There  are 
even  some  healthy  Juniperus  repens  in  the  midst  of 
these  woods.  Though  the  pitch  pines  are  the  prevailing 
trees  at  the  south  end,  I  see  no  young  pitch  pines  under 
them. 

Perhaps  this  is  the  way  that  a  natural  succession 
takes  place.  Perhaps  oak  seedlings  do  not  so  readily 
spring  up  and  thrive  within  a  mixed  white  pine  and  oak 
wood  as  pines  do,  —  in  the  more  open  parts,  —  and 
thus,  as  the  oaks  decay,  they  are  replaced  by  pines 
rather  than  by  oaks. 

But  where  did  the  pitch  pines  stand  originally  ?  Who 
cleared  the  land  for  its  seedlings  to  spring  up  in  ?  It  is 
commonly  referred  to  very  poor  and  sandy  land,  yet  I 
find  it  growing  on  the  best  land  also.  The  expression 
"  a  pitch  pine  plain  "  is  but  another  name  for  a  poor  and 
sandy  level.     It  grows  both  on  the  sand  and  [in]  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


272  JOURNAL  [Nov.  26 

swamp,  and  the  fact  that  it  grows  on  the  sand  chiefly 
is  not  so  much  evidence  that  it  prefers  it  as  that  other 
trees  have  excluded  it  from  better  soil.  If  you  cut  down 
the  pines  on  the  pitch  pine  plain,  oaks  will  come  up 
there  too.  Who  knows  but  the  fires  or  clearings  of  the 
Indians  may  have  to  do  with  the  presence  of  these 
trees  there  ?  They  regularly  cleared  extensive  tracts  for 
cultivation,  and  these  were  always  level  tracts  where 
the  soil  was  light  —  such  as  they  could  turn  over  with 
their  rude  hoes.  Such  was  the  land  which  they  are 
known  to  have  cultivated  extensively  in  this  town,  as 
the  Great  Fields  and  the  rear  of  Mr.  Dennis's,  —  sandy 
plains.  It  is  in  such  places  chiefly  that  you  find  their 
relics  in  any  part  of  the  coimty.  They  did  not  cultivate 
such  soil  as  our  maple  swamps  occupy,  or  such  a  suc- 
cession of  bills  and  dales  as  this  oak  wood  covers. 
Other  trees  will  grow  where  the  pitch  pine  does,  but 
the  former  will  maintain  its  ground  there  the  best.  I 
know  of  no  tree  so  Ukely  to  spread  rapidly  over  such 
areas  when  abandoned  by  the  aborigines  as  the  pitch 
pines  —  and  next  birches  and  white  pines. 

While  I  am  walking  in  the  oak  wood  or  counting 
the  rings  of  a  stump,  I  hear  the  faint  note  of  a  nuthatch 
like  the  creak  of  a  limb,  and  detect  [it]  on  the  trunk  of 
an  oak  much  nearer  than  I  suspected,  and  its  mate  or 
companion  not  far  oflF.  This  is  a  constant  phenomenon 
of  the  late  fall  or  early  winter;  for  we  do  not  hear  them 
in  summer  that  I  remember.*  I  heard  one  not  long 
since  in  the  street. 

I  see  one  of  those  common  birch  fungi  on  the  side  of 
^  In  '61  hear  one  occasionally  a  month  earlier  than  this. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  A  NUTHATCH  !273 

a  birch  stake  which  has  been  used  to  bound  a  lot  sold 
at  auction,  three  feet  or  more  from  the  ground,  and  its 
face  is  toward  the  earth  as  usual,  though  the  birch  is 
bottom  up. 

I  saw  that  nuthatch  to-day.  pick  out  from  a  crevice 
in  the  bark  of  an  oak  tnmk,  where  it  was  perpendicular, 
something  white  once  or  twice  and  pretty  large.  May  it 
not  have  been  the  meat  of  an  acorn  ?  Yet  commonly 
they  are  steadily  hopping  about  the  trunks  in  search  of 
insect  food.  Possibly  some  of  those  acom-shells  I  see 
about  the  base  of  trees  may  have  been  dropped  from 
the  crevices  in  the  bark  above  by  birds  —  nuthatch  or 
jay  —  as  well  as  left  by  squirrels. 

Mother  says  that  Lidy  Bay,  an  Indian  woman  (so 
considered),  used  to  live  in  the  house  beyond  Caesar's 
and  made  baskets,  which  she  brought  to  town  to  sell, 
with  a  ribbon  about  her  hat.    She  had  a  husband. 

The  value  of  these  wild  fruits  is  not  in  the  mere  pos- 
session or  eating  of  them,  but  in  the  sight  or  enjoyment 
of  them.  The  very  derivation  of  the  word  "fruit" 
would  suggest  this.  It  is  from  the  Ijaiin  fructus,  mean- 
ing that  which  is  used  or  enjoyed.  If  it  were  not  so,  then 
going  a-berrying  and  going  to  market  would  be  neariy 
synonymous  expressions.  Of  course  it  is  the  spirit  in 
which  you  do  a  thing  which  makes  it  interesting,  whether 
it  is  sweeping  a  room  or  pulling  turnips.  Peaches  are  un- 
questionably a  very  beautiful  and  palatable  fruit,  but  the 
gathering  of  them  for  the  market  is  not  neariy  so  inter- 
esting as  the  gathering  of  huckleberries  for  your  own  use. 

A  man  fits  out  a  ship  at  a  great  expense  and  sends 
it  to  the  West  Indies  with  a  crew  of  men  and  boys. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


274  JOURNAL  [Nov.  26 

and  after  six  months  or  a  year  it  comes  back  with  a 
load  of  pineapples.  Now,  if  no  more  gets  accomplished 
than  the  speculator  commonly  aims  at,  —  if  it  simply 
turns  out  what  is  called  a  successful  venture,  —  I  am 
less  interested  in  this  expedition  than  in  some  child's 
first  excursion  a-huckleberiying,  in  which  it  is  intro- 
duced into  a  new  world,  experiences  a  new  develop- 
ment, though  it  brings  home  only  a  gill  of  huckle- 
berries in  its  basket.  I  know  that  the  newspapers  and 
the  politicians  declare  otherwise,  but  they  do  not  alter 
the  fact.  Then,  I  think  that  the  fruit  of  the  latter  expe- 
dition was  finer  than  that  of  the  former.  It  was  a  more 
fruitful  expedition.  The  value  of  any  experience  is 
measured,  of  course,  not  by  the  amount  of  money,  but 
the  amount  of  development  we  get  out  of  it.  K  a  New 
England  boy's  dealings  with  oranges  and  pineapples 
have  had  more  to  do  with  his  development  than  picking 
huckleberries  or  pulling  turnips  have,  then  he  rightly 
and  naturally  thinks  more  of  the  former;  otherwise  not 

Do  not  think  that  the  fruits  of  New  England  are 
mean  and  insignificant,  while  those  of  some  foreign 
land  are  noble  and  memorable.  Our  own,  whatever  they 
may  be,  are  far  more  important  to  us  than  any  others 
can  be.  They  educate  us,  and  fit  us  to  live  in  New 
England.  •  Better  for  us  is  the  wild  strawberry  than  the 
pineapple,  the  wild  apple  than  the  orange,  the  hazelnut 
or  pignut  than  the  cocoanut  or  almond,  and  not  on 
account  of  their  flavor  merely,  but  the  part  they  play 
in  our  education. 

In  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Collections,  First 
Series,  volume  x.  Rev.  John  Gardner  of  Stow  furnishes 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      THE  HISTORY  OF  BOXBORO         275 

a  brief  historical  notice  of  that  town  in.  a  letter  dated 
1767.  He  says,  "  The  Indian  names  of  this  place  were 
Pompociticut  and  Shabbukin,  from  two  notable  hills.** 

I  anticipated  the  other  day  that  if  anybody  should 
write  the  history  of  Boxboro,  once  a  part  of  Stow,  he 
would  be  pretty  sure  to  omit  to  notice  the  most  in- 
teresting thing  in  it  —r  its  forest  —  and  lay  all  the  stress 
on  the  history  of  its  parish;  and  I  find  that  I  had  con- 
jectured rightly,  for  Mr.  Gardner,  after  telling  us  who 
was  his  predecessor  in  the  ministry  and  where  he 
himself  was  settled,  goes  on  to  say:  "As  for  any  re- 
markables,  I  am  of  the  mind  there  have  been  the  fewest 
of  any  town  of  our  standing  in  the  Province.  ...  I 
can't  call  to  mind  above  one  thing  worthy  of  publick 
notice,  and  that  is  the  grave  of  Mr.  John  Green,"  who, 
it  appears,  "  was  made  .  .  .  clerk  of  the  exchequer " 
by  Cromwell.  "Whether  he  was  excluded  the  Act  of 
Oblivion  or  not  I  cannot  tell,"  says  Mr.  Gardner.  At 
any  rate  he  tells  us  that  he  returned  to  New  England, 
**  lived  and  died,  and  lies  buried  in  this  place."  I  can 
assure  Mr.  Gardner  that  he  was  not  excluded  from  the 
act  of  oblivion. 

However,  Boxboro  was  less  peculiar  for  its  woods  a 
hundred  years  ago. 

I  have  been  surprised  when  a  young  man  who  had 
undertaken  to  write  the  history  of  a  country  town,  — 
his  native  place,  —  the  very  name  of  which  suggested 
a  hundred  things  to  me,  referred  to  it,  as  the  crowning 
fact  of  his  story,  that  that  town  was  the  residence  of 
General  So-and-so  and  the  family  mansion  was  still 
standing. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


276  JOURNAL  [Nov.  28 

Nov.  28.    P.  M.  —  To  Annursnack. 

Looking  from  the  hilltop,  I  should  say  that  there 
was  more  oak  woodland  than  pine  to  be  seen,  especially 
in  the  north  and  northeast,  but  it  is  somewhat  difficult 
to  distinguish  all  in  the  gleaming  sunlight  of  mid- 
aftemoon.  Most  of  the  oak,  however,  is  quite  young. 
As  for  pines,  I  cannot  say  surely  which  kind  is  most 
prevalent,  not  being  certain  about  the  most  distant 
woods.  The  white  pine  is  much  the  mo;st  dispersed, 
and  grows  oftener  in  low  ground  than  the  pitch  pine 
does.  It  oftenest  forms  mixed  woods  with  oak,  etc., 
growing  in  straight  or  meandering  lines,  occasionally 
swelling  into  a  dense  grove.  The  pitch  pines  commonly 
occupy  a  dry  soil  —  a  plain  or  brow  of  a  hill,  often  the 
site  of  an  old  grain-field  or  pasture  —  and  are  much 
the  most  seclusive,  for,  being  a  new  wood,  oaks,  etc., 
have  had  no  opportunity  to  grow  up  there,  if  they  could. 
I  look  down  now  on  the  top  of  a  pitch  pine  wood 
southwest  of  Brooks's  Pigeon-place,  and  its  top,  so 
nearly  level,  has  a  peculiarly  rich  and  crispy  look  in 
the  sun.  Its  limbs  are  short  and  its  plumes  stout  as  com- 
pared with  the  white  pine  and  are  of  a  yellowish  green. 

There  are  many  handsome  young  walnuts  ten  or 
twelve  feet  high  scattered  over  the  southeast  side  of 
Annursnack,  or  above  the  orchard.  How  came  they 
there  ?  Were  they  planted  before  a  wood  was  cut  ?  It 
is  remarkable  how  this  tree  loves  a  hillside. 

Behind  G.  M.  Barrett's  bam  a  scarlet  oak  stump 
18J  inches  [in]  diameter  and  about  94  rings,  which 
has  sent  up  a  sprout  two  or  three  years  since.  On  the 
plain  just  north  of  the  east  end  of  G.  M.  B.'s  oaks, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  FRUITS  AND   COMMERCE  277 

many  oaks  were  sawed  oflF  about  a  year  ago.  Those  I 
look  at  are  seedlings  and  very  sound  and  rings  very  dis- 
tinct and  handsome.  Generally  no  sprouts  from  them, 
though  one  white  oak  sprout  had  been  killed  by  frost. 
One  white  oak,  17  inches  [in]  diameter,  has  100  rings. 
A  second,  16j     "       "  "        also  100     *' 

The  last  has  two  centres  which  coalesced  at  the 
thirtieth  ring,  which  went  round  them  both  including 
old  bark  between  them.  This  was  an  instance  of  nat- 
ural grafting. 

Many  seem  to  be  so  constituted  that  they  can  respect 
only  somebody  who  is  dead  or  something  which  is 
distant. 

The  less  you  get,  the  happier  and  the  richer  you  are. 
The  rich  man's  son  gets  cocoanuts,  and  the  poor  man's, 
pignuts;  but  the  worst  of  it  is  that  the  former  never 
goes  a-cocoanutting,  and  so  he  never  gets  the  cream 
of  the  cocoanut  as  the  latter  does  the  cream  of  the 
pignut. 

That  on  which  commerce  seizes  is  always  the  very 
coarsest  part  of  a  fruit,  —  the  mere  husk  and  rind,  in 
fact,  —  for  her  hands  are  very  clumsy.  This  is  what 
fills  the  holds  of  ships,  is  exported  and  imported,  pays 
duties,  and  is  finally  sold  at  the  shops. 

It  is  a  grand  fact  that  you  cannot  make  the  finer 
fniits  or  parts  of  fruits  matter  of  commerce.  You  may 
buy  a  servant  or  slave,  in  short,  but  you  cannot  buy  a 
friend.  You  can't  buy  the  finer  part  of  any  fruit  —  i.  e. 
the  highest  use  and  enjoyment  of  it.  You  cannot  buy 
the  pleasure  which  it  yields  to  him  who  truly  plucks  it; 
you  can't  buy  a  good  appetite  even. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


J 


278  JOURNAL  [Nov.  28 

What  are  all  the  oranges  imported  into  England  to 
the  hips  and  haws  in  her  hedges  ?  She  could  easily  spare 
the  one,  but  not  the  others.  Ask  Wordsworth,  or  any 
of  lier  poets,  which  is  the  most  to  him. 

The  mass  of  men  are  very  easily  imposed  on.    They 

ve  their  runways  in  which  they  always  travel,  and  are 
sure  to  fall  into  any  pit  or  box  trap  set  therein.  What- 
ever a  great  many  grown-up  boys  are  seriously  engaged 
in  is  considered  great  and  good,  and,  as  such,  is  sure  of 
the  recognition  of  the  churchman  and  statesman.  What, 
for  instance,  are  the  blue  juniper  berries  in  the  pasture, 
which  the  cowboy  remembers  so  far  as  they  are  beauti- 
ful merely,  to  church  or  state  ?  Mere  trifles  which  de- 
serve and  get  no  protection.  As  an  object  of  beauty, 
though  significant  to  all  who  really  live  in  the  country, 
they  do  not  receive  the  protection  of  any  community. 
Anybody  may  grub  up  all  that  exist.  But  as  an  article  of 
commerce  they  command  the  attention  of  the  civilized 
world.  I  read  that  **  several  hundred  tons  of  them  are 
imported  annually  from  the  continent"  into  England  to 
flavor  gin  with;  "but  even  this  quantity,"  says  my 
author,  "  is  quite  insuflBcient  to  meet  the  enormous  con- 
sumption of  the  fiery  liquid,  and  the  deficiency  is  made 
up  by  spirits  of  turpentine.'*  Go  to  the  English  Govern- 
ment, which,  of  course,  is  representative  of  the  people, 
and  ask.  What  is  the  use  of  juniper  berries  ?  The  an- 
swer is.  To  flavor  gin  with.  This  is  the  gross  abuse  of 
juniper  berries,  with  which  an  enlightened  Government 
—  if  ever  there  shall  be  one  —  will  have  nothing  to  do. 

Let  us  make  distinctions,  call  things  by  the  right 
names. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]     SUCCESSORS  TO   PITCH  PINES       279 

Nov.  29.  Get  up  my  boat,  7  a.  m.  Thin  ice  of  the 
night  is  floating  down  the  river.  I  hear  that  some  boys 
went  on  to  Goose  Pond  on  the  26th  and  skated.  It 
must  have  been  thin. 

P.  M.  —  To  Fair  Haven  Hill. 

The  pitch  pine  twigs  have  been  so  generally  cut  oflF 
by  the  squirrels  for  the  sake  of  the  cones  that  I  easily 
detect  the  fertile  trees,  when  going  through  a  pitch  pine 
wood,  by  seeing  the  green  twigs  strewn  on  the  ground 
beneath.  But  few  of  the  trees  bear,  and  these  are  the 
ones. 

The  Bear  Garden  pitch  pines  are  so  generally  open 
that  young  pitch  pines  of  all  sizes  are  intermixed  with 
the  others.  There  are  many  small  white  pines  beside, 
but  few  if  any  seed-bearing  ones. 

I  proceed  through  Potter's  young  wood  south  of  this 
grove  (toward  Fair  Haven  Hill-side)  and  here  I  find 
by  the  stumps  what  I  remember,  —  that  a  pitch  pine 
wood  was  cut,  some  ten  or  twelve  years  ago,  judging 
from  the  state  of  the  stumps.  It  was  for  density,  ap- 
parently, such  a  grove  as  now  stands  northward  of  this. 
It  is  a  very  poor  soil.  Shrub  oaks  chiefly  appear  to  have 
succeeded  to  the  pines,  and  now  the  growth  consists  of 
oaks,  shrub  and  others  (the  latter  four  to  six  feet  high), 
pitch  pines  two  to  ten  feet  high,  and  white  birches.  The 
soil  is  but  poorly  clad,  owing  to  its  barrenness  and  the 
prevalence  of  shrub  oak  at  first.  Probably  the  largest 
of  these  young  pitch  pines  were  such  as  stood  in  the 
open  wood  when  it  was  cut  —  as  they  now  do  north- 
ward; but  apparently  the  majority  have  been  sown 
since,  as  others  are  still  being  sown  by  the  large  pitch 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


280  JOURNAL  [Nov.  29 

pines  there  are  left  here  and  there  quite  numerously, 
the  ground  is  still  so  open  and  bare  on  account  of  the 
feeble  growth  of  the  oaks.  The  white  birches  have  as 
yet  done  the  best,  the  pines  next.  It  will  ere  long  be  a 
mixed  oak  and  pitch  pine  wood,  the  pines  not  standing 
so  dense  as  in  new  woods,  though  pretty  thick  in  spots. 
This  shows  how  a  mixed  wood  of  this  character  may 
arise,  owing  first  to  the  existence  of  young  pitch  pines 
under  the  old  when  cut,  —  the  latter  being  so  open  as 
to  admit  of  their  growth,  —  and  secondly  to  the  barren 
soil  and  shrub  oaks,  which  fail  to  cover  it  for  a  long 
time,  so  that  even  after  six  or  eight  years  pitch  pines 
may  catch  there  from  seed-bearing  trees  which  are  left. 

I  am  pleased  to  find  an  evidence  that  the  pitch  pine 
wood  cut  down  here  a  dozen  years  ago  was  just  such  a 
new  wood  as  that  now  standing  on  [the]  north.  It  is 
this.  Along  the  southwest  edge  of  this  portion  of  the  lot, 
where  the  almost  abrupt  descent  begins,  I  see  many 
stones  which  were  cast  over  the  edge  of  the  bank  in 
great  heaps  when  it  was  cultivated. 

The  small  pitch  pine  grove  above  the  western  Fair 
Haven  spring  fully  proves  my  theory  of  white  pines  in 
pitch  pine,  though  there  is  hardly  a  seed-bearing  white 
pine  there.  Young  white  pines  are  rapidly  spread- 
ing up  Fair  Haven  Hill-side,  though  the  nearest  seed- 
bearing  white  pines  are  across  the  river,  thirty  to  sixty 
rods  oflF. 

I  remember  when  this  hillside  above  the  spring  was 
clear  of  wood.  In  fact,  I  was  here  when  this  field  was 
cleared  and  the  brush  burned,  some  thirty-five  years 
ago.   Yet  I  now  see  a  good  many  hickories  both  within 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]   THE  HILLSIDE-LOVING  WALNUT   281 

and  without  the  pines,  five  feet  high,  more  or  less.  I 
feel  about  sure  that  these  are  not  from  stumps  or  old 
roots  which  have  existed  in  the  ground  so  long.  How 
then  did  they  come  here  ?  The(j]  even  keep  in  advance 
of  the  pines  on  some  sides  a  rod  or  two  further  into  the 
open  land.  I  am  constrained  to  believe  that  they  were 
planted  there  by  quadrupeds  or  birds.  If  so,  the  wal- 
nut differs  from  the  oak  in  the  mode  of  its  spreading; 
for  I  do  not  see  oaks  anywhere  thus  springing  up  in 
groves  in  grass  ground,  in  advance  of  pines.  It  wiD  be 
worth  the  while  to  ascertain  the  age  of  these  exactly. 

It  is  remarkable  that  the  walnut  loves  a  hillside  so. 
I  saw  such  a  grove  yesterday  on  Annursnack.  Here  is 
another  of  still  larger  trees  a  little  lower  down  the  hill; 
and  there  is  a  much  more  extensive  one  on  the  similar 
slope  of  Smith's  Hill.  Are  animals  more  likely  to  plant 
walnuts  in  open  land  than  acorns  ?  or  is  it  that  walnuts 
are  more  likely  to  live  there  when  planted?  What  a 
lover  of  the  hills  is  this  tree!  I  may  be  mistaken  about 
those  on  Smith's  Hill,  after  all. 

Fair  Haven  Pond  is  skimmed  over,  all  but  the 
channel. 

Can  that  be  the  skeleton  of  a  raccoon  which  I  find 
(killed  not  long  since)  on  the  Cliff  Hill  ?  Measured  by 
my  book  it  —  the  body  from  shoulder  to  tail  —  is  15^ 
inches  long;  tail,  13 J;  hind  leg,  14 J.  Vide  skull  and 
foot. 

If  a  man  has  spent  all  his  days  about  some  business, 
by  which  he  has  merely  got  to  be  rich,  as  it  is  called,  i.  e., 
has  got  much  money,  many  houses  and  bams  and  wood- 
lots,  then  his  life  has  been  a  failure,  I  think;  but  if  he 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


282  JOURNAL  [Nov.  29 

has  been  trying  to  better  his  condition  in  a  higher  sense 
than  this,  has  been  trying  to  invent  something,  to  be 
somebody,  —  i.  e.y  to  invent  and  get  a  patent  for  him- 
self, —  so  that  all  may  see  his  originality,  though  he 
should  never  get  above  board,  —  and  great  inventors, 
you  know,  commonly  die  poor,  —  I  shall  think  him 
comparatively  successful. 

From  the  CliflF  I  see  more  oak  than  pine. 

Every  interest,  as  the  codfish  and  the  mackerel,  gets 
represented  but  the  huckleberry  interest.  The  first 
discoverers  and  explorers  of  the  land  make  report  of 
this  fruit,  but  the  last  make  comparatively  Uttle  account 
of  them. 

You  would  say  that  some  men  had  been  tempted  to 
live  in  this  world  at  all  only  by  the  offer  of  a  bounty  by 
the  general  government  —  a  bounty  on  living  —  to  any 
one  who  will  consent  to  be  out  at  this  era  of  the  world, 
the  object  of  the  governors  being  to  create  a  nursery 
for  their  navy.  I  told  such  a  man  the  other  day  that  I 
had  got  a  Canada  lynx  here  in  Concord,  and  his  instant 
question  was,  "Have  you  got  the  reward  for  him?" 
What  reward?  Why,  the  ten  dollars  which  the  State 
offers.  As  long  as  I  saw  him  he  neither  said  nor  thought 
anything  about  the  lynx,  but  only  about  this  reward. 
"  Yes,"  said  he,  "  this  State  offers  ten  dollars  reward." 
You  might  have  inferred  that  ten  dollars  was  some- 
thing rarer  in  his  neighborhood  than  a  lynx  even,  and 
he  was  anxious  to  see  it  on  that  account.  I  have  thought 
that  a  lynx  was  a  bright-eyed,  four-legged,  furry  beast 
of  the  cat  kind,  very  current,  indeed,  though  its  natural 
gait  is  by  leaps.   But  he  knew  it  to  be  a  draught  drawn 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE  MONEY  VALUE  OF  A  LYNX    283 

by  the  cashier  of  the  wildcat  bank  on  the  State  treasury, 
payable  at  sight.  Then  I  reflected  that  the  first  money 
was  of  leather,  or  a  whole  creature  (whence  pecuniae 
from  pecus,  a  herd),  and,  since  leather  was  at  first  furry, 
I  easily  understood  the  connection  between  a  lynx  and 
ten  dollars,  and  found  that  all  money  was  traceable 
right  back  to  the  original  wildcat  bank.  But  the  fact 
was  that,  instead  of  receiving  ten  dollars  for  the  lynx 
which  I  had  got,  I  had  paid  away  some  dollars  in  order 
to  get  him.  So,  you  see,  I  was  away  back  in  a  gray 
antiquity  behind  the  institution  of  money,  —  further 
than  history  goes. 

This  reminded  me  that  I  once  saw  a  cougar  recently 
killed  at  the  Adirondacks  which  had  had  its  ears  clipped. 
This  was  a  ten-dollar  cougar. 

Yet,  though  money  can  buy  no  fine  fruit  whatever, 
and  we  are  never  made  truly  rich  by  the  possession  of  it, 
the  value  of  things  generally  is  commonly  estimated  by 
the  amount  of  money  they  will  fetch.  A  thing  is  not 
valuable  —  e.  g.  a.  fine  situation  for  a  house  —  until 
it  is  convertible  into  so  much  money,  that  is,  can 
cease  to  be  what  it  is  and  become  something  else  which 
you  prefer.  So  you  will  see  that  all  prosaic  people  who 
possess  only  the  commonest  sense,  who  believe  strictly 
in  this  kind  of  wealth,  are  speculators  in  fancy  stocks 
and  continually  cheat  themselves,  but  poets  and  all 
discerning  people,  who  have  an  object  in  life  and  know 
what  they  want,  speculate  in  real  values.  The  mean 
and  low  values  of  anything  depend  on  it[s]  converti- 
bility into  something  else  —  i.  e.  have  nothing  to  do 
with  its  intrinsic  value. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


284  JOURNAL  [Nov.  29 

This  world  and  our  life  have  practically  a  similar 
value  only  to  most.  The  value  of  life  is  what  anybody 
will  give  you  for  living/ A  man  has  his  price  at  the  South, 
is  worth  so  many  dollars,  and  so  he  has  at  the  North^ 
Many  a  man  here  sets  out  by  saying,  I  will  make  so 
many  dollars  by  such  a  time,  or  before  I  die,  and  that 
is  his  price,  as  much  as  if  he  were  knocked  oflF  for  it  by 
a  Southern  auctioneer. 

We  hear  a  good  deal  said  about  moonshine  by  so- 
called  practical  people,  and  the  next  day,  perchance, 
we  hear  of  their  failure,  they  having  been  dealing  in 
fancy  stocks;  but  there  really  never  is  any  moonshine 
of  this  kind  in  the  practice  of  poets  and  philosophers; 
there  never  are  any  hard  times  or  failures  with  them» 
for  they  deal  with  permanent  values. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


DECEMBER,  1860 

(MT.  43) 

Dec.  1.    P.  M.  —  To  Fair  Haven  HiU. 

Yesterday,  rain,  raising  river  somewhat.  Examined 
the  young  hickories  on  Fair  Haven  Hill  slope  to  see 
how  old  they  are.  I  sawed  oflF  three  at  two  or  three  inches 
below  the  surface,  and  also  higher  up.  These  were 
about  three  feet  high.  The  rings  are  very  hard  to  discern, 
but  I  judge  the  smallest  of  them  (which  is  about  one 
inch  in  diameter  and  three  feet  high)  to  be  seven  years 
old.  The  other  two  are  probably  older,  yet  not  nearly 
so  old  as  the  pines  whose  beginning  I  remember.  It 
therefore  must  be  that  these  hickories  have  sprung  up 
from  nuts  within  seven  to  twenty-five  years  past.  They 
are  most  numerous  in  openings  four  or  five  rods  over 
amid  the  pines,  and  are  also  found  many  rods  from 
the  pines  in  the  open  pasture,  and  also  especially  along 
walls,  though  yet  very  far  from  other  trees  of  any  kind. 
I  infer,  therefore,  that  animals  plant  them,  and  perhaps 
their  growing  along  walls  may  be  accounted  for  in  part 
by  the  fact  that  the  squirrels  with  nuts  oftenest  take  that 
road.  What  is  most  remarkable  is  that  they  should  be 
planted  so  often  in  open  land,  on  a  bare  hillside,  where 
oaks  rarely  are.  I  do  not  know  of  a  grove  of  oaks 
springing  up  in  this  manner, — ^with  broad  intervals 
of  bare  sward  between  them,  and  away  from  pines. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


286  JOURNAL  [Dec.  1 

How  is  this  to  be  accounted  for  ?  Yet  I  did  notice  oak 
seedlings  coming  up  in  this  manner  in  Potter's  open 
field  beyond  Bear  Garden. 

It  is  wonderful  how  much  these  hickories  have 
endured  and  prevailed  over.  Though  I  searched  the 
whole  hillside,  not  only  for  the  smallest,  but  the  most 
perpendicular  and  soundest,  each  of  the  three  that  I 
sawed  oflF  had  died  down  once  at  least,  years  ago. 
Though  it  might  not  betray  any  scar  above  ground,  on 
digging  I  found  it  an  inch  below  the  surface. 

Most  of  these  small  ones  consist  of  several  stems 
from  one  root,  and  they  are  often  of  such  fantastic 
forms  and  so  diseased  that  they  seem  to  be  wholly  dead 
at  a  little  distance,  and  yet  evidently  many  of  them 
make  erect,  smooth,  and  sound  trees  at  last,  all  defects 
smoothed  over  or  obliterated.  Some  which  have  thus 
died  down  and  sprung  up  again  are  in  the  form  of  rude 
harps  and  the  like.  These  had  great  tap-roots  con- 
siderably larger  just  beneath  the  surface  than  the  stock 
above,  and  they  were  so  firmly  set  in  the  ground  that, 
though  the  tree  was  scarcely  an  inch  in  diameter  and 
you  had  dug  around  it  to  the  depth  of  three  or  four 
inches,  it  was  impossible  to  pull  one  up;  yet  I  did  not 
notice  any  side  roots,  so  high.  They  are  iron  trees,  so 
rigid  and  so  firm  set  are  they.  It  may  be  that  they 
are  more  persistent  at  the  root  than  oaks,  and  so  at 
last  succeed  in  becoming  trees  in  these  localities  where 
oaks  fail.  They  may  be  more  persevering.  Perhaps, 
also,  cattle  do  not  browse  them,  but  do  oaks.  It  will 
be  very  suggestive  to  a  novice  just  to  go  and  dig  up  a 
dozen  seedling  oaks  and  hickories  and  see  what  they 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  YOUNG  HICKORIES  287 

have  had  to  contend  with.  Theirs  is  like  the  early  career 
of  genius. 

Measured  a  great  red  maple  near  the  sduth  end  of 
E.  Hubbard's  swamp,  dividing  in  two  at  the  ground, 
the  largest  trunk  7  feet  and  10  inches  at  three  feet  and 
draped  for  three  or  four  feet  up  with  tlie  pulmonaria  (?) 
lichen.  This  the  largest  I  know.  Another  is  5^  feet,  a 
third  5|,  a  fourth  in  open  land  just  south  of  turnpike 
6i 

Dec.  2.  P.  M.  —  To  Smith's  Hickory  Hill-side.' 
I  come  via  Britton's  to  see  if  I  can  find  a  seedling 
hickory  under  half  a  dozen  years  old.  After  searching 
long  amid  the  very  numerous  young  hickories  at  Brit- 
ton's shanty  and  Smith's  Hill  I  fail  to  find  one  so 
recently  planted.  I  find  many  at  the  last  place  only  one 
or  two  feet,  but  they  invariably  have  great  roots,  and 
old  stubs  which  have  died  down  are  visible  at  or  beneath 
the  surface  of  the  ground.  It  is  very  common  —  almost 
the  rule  —  to  find  from  one  to  three  from  one  root  each  . 
,one  inch  in  diameter  and  two  or  three  feet  high,  while 
the  common  stock  lieneath  the  ground  is  two  inches  in 
diameter.  Pulling  at  one  at  Britton's,  which  was  two 
feet  and  a  quarter  in  height,  it  came  up  easily,  to  my 
surprise,  and  I  found  that  it  had  broken  oflF  at  just  one 
foot  below  the  surface,  being  quite  decayed  there.  It 
was  three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  diameter  at  the  surface, 
and  increased  regularly  for  five  or  six  inches  downward 
till  it  was  one  inch  in  diameter.  There  was  the  stub  of 
an  old  shoot,  and  the  root  was  suddenly  enlarged  to 
about  one  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  and  held  about 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


288  JOURNAL  [Dec.  2 

the  same  to  where  it  broke  off,  at  a  foot  below  the  sur- 
face. There  was  another  stub  about  three  inches  above 
the  ground*  and  the  more  recent  growth  above  this  was 
the  work  of  about  four  years.  This  last  had  died,  and 
this  year  two  shoots  had  put  out  at  six  and  eight  inches 
above  the  ground  and  had  grown  two  and  four  inches 
respectively.  Here  were  evident,  then,  at  the  very  least, 
four  efforts  to  rise  to  a  tree. 

The  first  stub  was  about  the  diameter  of  the 
whole  tree  at  present  (above  ground).  Call 
it,  then,  4  years 

The  second  was  probably  two  years  old  when 
it  died  (at  least)  2 

The  third  (forming  the  present  tree)  4 

The  fourth  (growth  of  this  year)  1 

11 

This  little  hickory,  two  feet  and  a  quarter  high  and 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  standing  in  open 
•  land,  was  then  at  least  eleven  years  old.  What  more 
the  root  would  have  revealed  if  I  had  dug  deeper,  I . 
do  not  know.  The  fact  that  the  lowest  observed  stub 
was  nearly  six  inches  below  the  surface,  showing 
plainly  to  the  eye  that  the  earth  had  been  heaped  up 
about,  was  significant  and  suggested  that  this  root 
might  have  survived  in  the  ground  through  clearing 
and  burning  and  subsequent  cultivation.  I  remember 
well  when  the  field  was  cultivated,  I  should  think 
within  ten  or  twelve  years.  It  must  be  seventeen  or 
eighteen  years  since  the  woods  were  cut  here;  since 
which  time  a  peach  orchard  (which  I  selected)  has  been 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  YOUNG  HICKORIES 

raised,  a  premium  obtained  for  it,  and  the  trees  died 
and  gone  some  years  ago,  also  an  apple  orchard.  The 
hickories  are  on  the  site  and  in  the  midst  of  these ;  and 
what  makes  it  the  more  likely  that  these  hickories  may 
be  from  roots  of  young  seedlings  left  in  the  ground 
is  the  fact  that  there  are  sprouts  from  several  large 
chestnut  stumps  in  the  midst  of  the  orchard,  which,  by 
their  size,  have  probably  been  cut  down  once  or  twice 
since  the  tree  was  cut,  and  yet  survived.  What  is  true  of 
these  chestnut  sprouts  may  be  true  of  the  hickories. 

On  Smith's  Hill  I  selected  a  large  and  healthy- 
looking  one  (hickory),  sawed  it  oflF,  and  found  it  nearly 
dead.  It  was  four  years  old.  It  had  been  cut  down 
before  to  a  stub,  which  showed  five  years  more.  I  did 
not  look  beneath  the  surface.  The  leading  shoot  was 
perfectly  withered  and  dead.  The  same  was  very  com- 
monly the  case,  except  when  the  tree  had  got  above  a 
certain  height.  I  do  not  think  that  a  single  hickory 
has  been  planted  in  either  of  these  places  for  some 
years  at  least.  Indeed,  why  should  squirrels  bring  the 
nuts  to  these  particular  localities  where  other  hickories 
already  stood?  which  they  must  do,  supposing  them 
to  be  planted  still,  and  not  to  be  all  of  one  age. 

They  seem  to  be  able  to  resist  fire,  cultivation,  and 
frost.  The  last  is  apparently  their  great  enemy  at 
present.  It  is  astonishing  how  many  efforts  they  make, 
how  persistent  they  are.   Thus  much  is  certain,  at  least. 

In  surrounding  young  wood  they  are  common,  and 
have  got  up  three  or  four  times  as  high.  It  may  be  that 
when  pine  and  oaks  and  hickories,  young  and  old,  are 
cut  oflF  and  the  land  cleared,  the  two  former  are  ex- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


290  JOURNAL  [Dec.  2 

terminated  but  the  hickories  are  tough  and  stubborn 
and  do  not  give  up  the  ground.  I  cannot  as  yet  accoimt 
for  their  existence  in  these  two  localities  otherwise. 
Yet  I  still  think  that  some  must  have  been  planted  on 
Fair  Haven  Hill  without  the  pines  in  a  manner  in  which 
oaks  are  not,  within  a  dozen  years.  Or  perchance,  if  the 
oaks  are  so  planted,  they  fail  to  come  up  ? 

In  Stow's  wood  at  Saw  Mill  Brook  an  old  chestnut 
stump.  Two  sprouts  from  this  were  cut  three  years 
ago  and  have  forty-two  rings.  From  the  stumps  of  the 
sprouts,  other  sprouts  three  years  old  have  grown. 
The  old  stump  was  cut  there  forty-five  years  ago.  The 
centre  of  the  stumps  of  each  of  these  sprouts  is  hollow 
for  one  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter.  See  a  chestnut 
stump,  a  seedling  sawed  oflf,  with  seventy-five  rings 
and  no  sprout  from  it.  Commonly  the  sprouts  stand 
in  a  circle  aroimd  the  stump,  —  often  a  dozen  or  more 
of  them. 

Dec,  3,'    P.  M.  — To  Hill. 

The  hickory  which  was  blown  down  by  the  wall  has 
been  cut  up  into  lengths.  The  end  of  one  some  twelve 
feet  from  ground  apparently  is  sixteen  inches  in  diameter 
and  has  112  rings  distinct,  the  first  50  within  five  and 
three  quarters  inches.    The  bark  is  one  inch  thick. 

Measured  the  three  white  oaks  on  the  southeast  side 
of  hill. 

*  [Under  date  of  March  22,  1861,  Thoreau  wrote  to  Daniel  Ricket- 
son :  "  I  took  a  severe  cold  about  the  3d  of  December,  which  at  length 
resulted  in  a  kind  of  bronchitis,  so  that  I  have  been  confined  to  the 
house  ever  since."  —  Familiar  Letters,  p.  376;  Riv.  435.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]   AN  OPINION   OF  JOHN  BROWN      291 

The  northenunost        at  three  feet  is  10  feet  in  circumference. 
«   southeastemmost  "      "       "    "  10§    " 
"  southwestemmost "      "       "     "  11 J    " 

I  find  no  young  hickories  springing  up  on  the  open 
hillside.  Yet,  if  they  do  so  elsewhere,  why  should  they 
not  here,  where  nuts  are  abundant  ?  But,  under  and 
about  the  hickory  which  stands  near  the  white  oak 
(under  the  north  side  of  the  hill),  there  are  many  small 
hickories  two  to  four  feet  high  amid  the  birches  and 
pines,  —  the  largest  of  which  birches  and  pines  have 
been  lately  cut  oflF. 

I  am  inclined  to  think  now  that  both  oaks  and  hick- 
ories are  occasionally  planted  in  open  land  a  rod  or 
two  or  more  beyond  the  edge  of  a  pine  or  other  wood, 
but  that  the  hickory  roots  are  more  persistent  under 
these  circumstances  and  hence  oftener  succeed  there. 

As  for  the  planting  of  acoms,  it  is  to  be  observed 
that  they  do  not  require  to  be  buried  but  merely  trans- 
ported and  dropped  on  the  surface  in  a  suitable  place. 
All  the  sound  white  oak  acoms  that  I  can  find  have 
now  sent  down  their  radicle  under  these  circum- 
stances, though,  no  doubt,  far  the  greatest  part  of  them 
will  be  killed  this  winter. 

Talking  with  Walcott  and  Staples  to-day,  they  de-  ^ 
clared  that  John  Brown  did  wrong.  When  I  said  that  ' 
I  thought  he  was  right,  they  agreed  in  asserting  that  he 
did  wrong  because  he  threw  his  life  away,  and  that 
no  man  had  a  right  to  undertake  anything  which  he 
knew  would  cost  him  his  life.  I  inquired  if  Christ  did 
not  foresee  that  he  would  be  crucified  if  he  preached 
such  doctrines  as  he  did,  but  they  both,  though  as  if 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


292  JOURNAL  [Dec.  8 

it  was  their  only  escape,  asserted  that  they  did  not 
believe  that  he  did.  Upon  which  a  third  party  threw 
in,  "You  do  not  think  that  he  had  so  much  foresight 
as  Brown."  Of  course,  they  as  good  as  said  that,  if 
Christ  had  foreseen  that  he  would  be  crucified,  he  would 
have  "backed  out."  Such  are  the  principles  and  the 
logic  of  the  mass  of  men. 

It  is  to  be  remembered  that  by  good  deeds  or  words 
you  encourage  yourself,  who  always  have  need  to  wit- 
ness or  hear  them. 

Dec.  4.  The  first  snow,  four  or  five  inches,  this 
evening. 

Talk  about  slavery!  It  is  not  the  peculiar  institution 
of  the  South.  It  exists  wherever  men  are  bought  and 
sold,  wherever  a  man  allows  himself  to  be  made  a  mere 
thing  or  a  tool,  and  surrenders  his  inalienable  rights 
of  reason  and  conscience.  Indeed,  this  slavery  is  more 
complete  than  that  which  enslaves  the  body  alone.  It 
exists  in  the  Northern  States,  and  I  am  reminded  by 
what  I  find  in  the  newspapers  that  it  exists  in  Canada. 
I  never  yet  met  with,  or  heard  of,  a  judge  who  was  not 
a  slave  of  this  kind,  and  so  the  finest  and  most  unfailing 
weapon  of  injustice.  He  fetches  a  slightly  higher  price 
than  the  black  man  only  because  he  is  a  more  valuable 
slave. 

It  appears  that  a  colored  man  killed  his  would-be 
kidnapper  in  Missouri  and  fled  to  Canada.  The  blood- 
hounds have  tracked  him  to  Toronto  and  now  demand 
him  of  her  judges.  From  all  that  I  can  learn,  they 
are  playing  their  parts  like  judges.   They  are  servile, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC' 


1860]  A  FUGITIVE  ^LAVE   IN   CANADA      293 

while  the  poor  fugitive  in  their  jail  is  free  in  spirit  at 
least. 

This  is  what  a  Canadian  writes  to  the  New  York 
Tribune :  "  Our  judges  may  be  compelled  to  render  a 
judgment  adverse  to  the  prisoner.  Depend  upon  it,  they 
will  not  do  it  unless  compelled  [his  italics].^  And  then 
the  poor  fellow  will  be  taken  back,  and  probably 
burned  to  death  by  the  brutes  of  the  South."  Com- 
pelled !  By  whom  ?  Does  God  compel  them  ?  or  is  it 
some  other  master  whom  they  serve  ?  Can't  they  hold  out 
a  little  longer  against  the  tremendous  pressure  f  If  they 
are  fairly  represented,  I  would  n't  trust  their  courage  to 
defend  a  setting  hen  of  mine  against  a  weasel.  Will  this 
excuse  avail  them  when  the  real  day  of  judgment  comes  ? 
They  have  not  to  fear  the  slightest  bodily  harm:  no 
one  stands  over  them  with  a  stick  or  a  knife  even  [?]. 
They  have  at  the  worst  only  to  resign  their  places  and 
not  a  mouse  will  squeak  about  it.  And  yet  they  are  likely 
to  assist  in  tying  this  victim  to  the  stake!  Would  that 
his  example  might  teach  them  to  break  their  own  fet- 
ters! They  appear  not  to  know  what  kind  of  justice 
that  is  which  is  to  be  done  though  the  heavens  fall. 
Better  that  the  British  Empire  be  destroyed  than  that 
it  should  help  to  reenslave  this  man ! 

This  correspondent  suggests  that  the  "  good  people  " 
of  New  York  may  rescue  him  as  he  is  being  carried 
back.  There,  then,  is  the  only  resort  of  justice,  — not 
where  the  judges  are,  but  where  the  mob  is,  where 
human  hearts  are  beating,  and  hands  move  in  obedience 
to  their  impulses.  Perhaps  his  fellow-fugitives  in  Toronto 
*  [The  brackets  are  Thoreau'sJ 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


294  JOURNAL  [Dec.  4 

may  not  feel  compelled  to  surrender  him.  Justice, 
departing  from  the  Canadian  soil,  leaves  her  last  traces 
among  these. 

What  is  called  the  religious  world  very  generally 
deny  virtue  to  all  who  have  not  received  the  Grospel. 
They  accept  no  god  as  genuine  but  the  one  that  bears 
a  Hebrew  name.  The  Greenlander's  Pirhsoma  [?]  (he 
that  is  above),  or  any  the  like,  is  always  the  name  of 
a  false  god  to  them. 

C.  says  that  Walden  was  first  frozen  over  on  the 
16th  December. 

Dec,  22.  This  evening  and  night,  the  second  im- 
portant snow,  there  having  been  sleighing  since  the 
4th,  and  now,  — 

Dec,  23,  —  there  is  seven  or  eight  inches  of  snow  at 
least.  Larks  were  about  our  house  the  middle  of  this 
month. 

Dec.  26.  Melvin  sent  to  me  yesterday  a  perfect 
Strix  dsio,  or  red  owl  of  Wilson, — not  at  all  gray. 
This  is  now  generally  made  the  same  with  the  ncBvia,  but, 
while  some  consider  the  red  the  old,  others  consider 
the  red  the  young.  This  is,  as  Wilson  says,  a  bright "  nut 
brown  "  like  a  hazelnut  or  dried  hazel  bur  (not  hazel). 
It  is  twenty-three  inches  [in]  alar  extent  by  about  eleven 
long.  Feet  extend  one  inch  beyond  tail.  Cabot  makes 
the  old  bird  red;  Audubon,  the  young.  How  well 
fitted  these  and  other  owls  to  withstand  the  winter!  a 
mere  core  in  the  midst  of  such  a  muff  of  feathers !  Then 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]      CIVILIZATION  AND   BERRIES  295 

the  feet  of  this  are  feathered  finely  to  the  claws,  looking 
like  the  feet  of  a  furry  quadruped.  Accordingly  owls 
are  common  here  in  winter;  hawks,  scarce. 

It  is  no  worse,  I  allow,  than  almost  every  other  prac- 
tice which  custom  has  sanctioned,  but  that  is  the  worst 
of  it,  for  it  shows  how  bad  the  rest  are.  To  such  a  pass 
our  civilization  and  division  of  labor  has  come  that  A, 
a  professional  huckleberry-picker,  has  hired  B's  field 
and,  we  will  suppose,  is  now  gathering  the  crop,  per- 
haps with  the  aid  of  a  patented  machine ;  C,  a  professed 
cook,  is  superintending  the  cooking  of  a  pudding  made 
of  some  of  the  berries ;  while  Professor  D,  for  whom  the 
pudding  is  intended,  sits  in  his  library  writing  a  book, 
—  a  work  on  the  Vaccinieae,  of  course.  And  now  the 
result  of  this  downward  course  will  be  seen  in  that  book, 
which  should  be  the  ultimate  fruit  of  the  huckleberry- 
field  and  account  for  the  existence  of  the  two  professors 
who  come  between  D  and  A.  It  will  be  worthless.  There 
will  be  none  of  the  spirit  of  the  huckleberry  in  it.  The 
reading  of  it  will  be  a  weariness  to  the  flesh.  To  use  a 
homely  illustration,  this  is  to  save  at  the  spile  but  waste : 
at  the  bung.  I  believe  in  a  difiFerent  kind  of  division  of 
labor,  and  that  Professor  D  should  divide  himself  be- 1 
tween  the  library  and  the  huckleberry-field. 

Dec.  30.  Sunday.  I  saw  the  crows  a  week  ago  perched 
on  the  swamp  white  oaks  over  the  road  just  beyond 
Wood's  Bridge,  and  many  acorns  and  bits  of  bark  and 
moss,  evidently  dropped  or  knocked  oflF  by  them,  lay  on 
the  snow  beneath.  One  sat  within  twenty  feet  over  my 
head  with  what  looked  like  a  piece  of  acorn  in  his  bill. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


296  JOURNAL  [Dec.  30 

To-day  I  see  that  they  have  carried  these  same  white 
oak  acoms,  cups  and  all,  to  the  ash  tree  by  the  river- 
side, some  thirty  rods  southeast,  and  dropped  them 
there.  Perhaps  they  find  some  grubs  in  the  acoms, 
when  they  do  not  find  meat.  The  crows  now  and  of  late 
frequent  thus  the  large  trees  by  the  river,  especially 
swamp  white  oak,  and  the  snow  beneath  is  strewn  with 
bits  of  bark  and  moss  and  with  acoms  (conm[ionly 
worthless).  They  are  foraging.  Under  the  first  swamp 
white  oak  in  Hubbard's  great  meadow  (Cyanean)  I 
see  a  little  snap-turtle  (shell  some  one  and  a  quarter 
inches  in  diameter  —  on  his  second  year,  then)  on  its 
back  on  the  ice  —  shell,  legs,  and  tail  perfect,  but  head 
pulled  oflF,  and  most  of  the  inwards  with  it  by  the  same 
hole  (where  the  neck  was).  What  is  left  smells  quite 
fresh,  and  this  head  must  have  been  torn  oflf  to-day  — 
or  within  a  day  or  two.  I  see  two  crows  on  the  next 
swamp  white  oak  westward,  and  I  can  scarcely  doubt 
that  they  did  it.  Probably  one  found  the  young  turtle 
at  an  open  and  springy  place  in  the  meadow,  or  by  the 
river,  where  they  are  constantly  preying,  and  flew  with 
it  to  this  tree.  Yet  it  is  possible  (?)  that  it  was  frozen  to 
death  when  ^they  found  it. 

I  also  saw  under  the  oak  where  the  crows  were  one 
of  those  large  brown  cocoons  of  the  Attacus  Cecroptay 
which  no  doubt  they  had  torn  oflF. 

Eben  Conant's  sons  tell  me  that  there  has  been  a 
turtle  dove  associating  with  their  tame  doves  and  feeding 
in  the  yard  from  time  to  time  for  a  fortnight  past.  They 
saw  it  to-day. 

The  traveller  Burton  says  that  the  word  Doab, "  which 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]    THE  WHORTLEBERRY  FAMILY       297 

means  the  land  embraced  by  the  bifurcation  of  two 
streams,  has  no  English  equivalent."  ("  Lake  Regions 
of  Central  Africa,"  page  72.) 

It  is  remarkable  how  universally,  as  it  respects  soil 
and  exposure,  the  whortleberry  family  is  distributed 
with  us,  one  kind  or  a:nother  (of  those  of  which  I  am 
speaking)  flourishing  in  every  soil  and  locality,  —  the 
Pennsylvania  and  Canada  blueberries  especially  in  ele- 
vated cool  and  airy  places  —  on  hills  and  mountains, 
and  in  openings  in  the  woods  and  in  sprout-lands ;  the 
high  blueberry  in  swamps,  and  the  second  low  blue- 
berry in  intermediate  places,  or  almost  anywhere  but 
in  swamps  hereabouts;  while  we  have  two  kinds  con- 
fined to  the  Alpme  tops  of  our  highest  mountains.  The 
family  thus  ranges  from  the  highest  mountain-tops  to 
the  lowest  swamps  and  forms  the  prevailing  small  shrubs 
of  a  great  part  of  New  England.  Not  only  is  this  true  of 
the  family,  but  hereabouts  of  the  genus  Gaylussacia,  or 
the  huckleberries  proper,  alone.  I  do  not  know  of  a  spot 
where  any  shrub  grows  in  this  neighborhood  but  one 
or  another  species  or  variety  of  the  Gaylussacia  may 
also  grow  there.  It  is  stated  in  Loudon  (page  1076) 
that  all  the  plants  of  this  order  **  require  a  peat  soil,  or  a 
soil  of  a  close  cohesive  nature,"  but  this  is  not  the  case 
with  the  huckleberry.  The  huckleberry  grows  on  the 
tops  of  our  highest  hills;  no  pasture  is  too  rocky  or 
barren  for  it;  it  grows  in  such  deserts  as  we  have, 
standing  in  pure  sand;  and,  at  the  same  time,  it  flourishes 
in  the  strongest  and  most  fertile  soil.  One  variety  is 
peculiar  to  quaking  bogs  where  there  can  hardly  be 
said  to  be  any  soil  beneath,  not  to  mention  another  but 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


298  JOURNAL  [Dec.  30 

unpalatable  species,  the  hairy  huckleberry,  which  is 
found  in  bogs.  It  extends  through  all  our  woods  more 
or  less  thinly,  and  a  distinct  species,  the  dangle-berry, 
belongs  especially  to  moist  woods  and  the  edges  of 
swamps. 

Such  care  has  nature  taken  to  furnish  to  birds  and 
quadrupeds,  and  to  men,  a  palatable  berry  of  this  kind, 
slightly  modified  by  soil  and  climate,  wherever  the  con- 
sumer may  chance  to  be.  Com  and  potatoes,  apples 
and  pears,  have  comparatively  a  narrow  range,  but  we 
can  fill  our  basket  with  whortleberries  on  the  summit 
of  Mt.  Washington,  above  almost  all  the  shrubs  with 
which  we  are  familiar,'  —  the  same  kind  which  they 
have  in  Greenland,  —  and  again,  when  we  get  home, 
with  another  species  in  Beck  Stow's  Swamp. 

I  find  that  in  Bomare's  "  Dictionnaire  Raisonne" 
the  Vitis  Idcea  (of  many  kinds)  is  called  "raisin  des 
bois."  Our  word  "  berry,"  according  to  lexicographers, 
is  from  the  Saxon  heria^  a  grape  or  cluster  of  grapes; 
but  it  must  acquire  a  new  significance  here,  if  a  new 
word  is  not  substituted  for  it. 

According  to  Father  Rasles*  Dictionary,  the  Abenaki 
word  for  bluets  ^  was,  fresh,  solar  (in  another  place  satey 
tar)\  dry,  sakisatar. 

First  there  is  the  early  dwarf  blueberry,  the  smallest 
of  the  whortleberry  shrubs  with  us,  and  the  first  to 
ripen  its  fruit,  not  commonly  an  erect  shrub,  but  more 
or  less  reclined  and  drooping,  often  covering  the  earth 
with  a  sort  of  dense  matting.  The  twigs  are  green, 
the  flowers  commonly  white.  Both  the  shrub  and  its 
*  [See  p.  300.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BLUEBERRIES  299 

fruit  are  the  most   tender  and  delicate  of  any  that 
we  have. 

The  Vaccinium  Canadense  may  be  considered  a  more 
northern  form  of  the  same. 

Some  ten  days  later  comes  the  high  blueberry,  or 
swamp  blueberry,  the  commonest  stout  shrub  of  our 
swamps,  of  which  I  have  been  obliged  to  cut  down  not 
a  few  when  running  lines  as  a  surveyor  through  the  low 
woods.  They  are  a  pretty  sure  indication  of  water,  and, 
when  I  see  their  dense  curving  tops  ahead,  I  prepare 
to  wade,  or  for  a  wet  foot.  The  flowers  have  an  agreeable 
sweet  and  berry-promising  fragrance,  and  a  handful  of 
them  plucked  and  eaten  have  a  subacid  taste  agreeable 
to  some  palates. 

At  the  same  time  with  the  last  the  common  low  blue- 
berry is  ripe.  This  is  an  upright  slender  shrub  with  a 
few  long  wand-like  branches,  with  green  bark  and 
pink-colored  recent  shoots  and  glaucous-green  leaves. 
The  flowers  have  a  considerable  rosy  tinge,  of  a  delicate 
tint. 

The  last  two  more  densely  flowered  than  the  others. 

The  huckleberry,  as  you  know,  is  an  upright  shrub, 
more  or  less  stout  depending  on  the  exposure  to  the 
sun  and  air,^  with  a  spreading,  bushy  top,  a  dark-brown 
bark,  and  red  recent  shoots,  with  thick  leaves.  The 
flowers  are  much  more  red  than  those  of  the  others. 

As  in  old  times  they  who  dwelt  on  the  heath  remote 
from  towns  were  backward  to  adopt  the  doctrines  which 
prevailed  there,  and  were  therefore  called  heathen  in  a 
bad  sense,  so  we  dwellers  in  the  huckleberry  pastures, 
which  are  our  heath  lands,  are  slow  to  adopt  the  notions 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


300  JOURNAL  [Dec.  30 

of  large  towns  and  cities  and  may  perchance  be  nick- 
named huckleberry  people.  But  the  worst  of  it  is  that  the 
emissaries  of  the  towns  care  more  for  our  berries  than 
for  our  salvation. 

In  those  days  the  very  race  had  got  a  bad  name,  and 
ethnicus  was  only  another  name  for  heathen. 

All  our  hills  are  or  have  been  huckleberry  hills,  the 
three  hills  of  Boston  and,  no  doubt,  Bunker  Hill  among 
the  rest. 

In  May  and  June  all  our  hills  and  fields  are  adorned 
with  a  profusion  of  the  pretty  little  more  or  less  bell- 
shaped  flowers  of  this  family,  commonly  turned  toward 
the  earth  and  more  or  less  tinged  with  red  or  pink  and 
resounding  with  the  hum  of  insects,  each  one  the  fore- 
runner of  a  berry  the  most  natural,  wholesome,  pala- 
table that  the  soil  can  produce. 

The  early  low  blueberry,  which  I  will  call  "  bluet," 
adopting  the  name  from  the  Canadians,  is  probably  the 
prevailing  kind  of  whortleberry  in  New  England,  for  the 
high  blueberry  and  huckleberry  are  unknown  in  many 
sections.  In  many  New  Hampshire  towns  a  neighbor- 
ing mountain-top  is  the  common  berry-field  of  many 
villages,  and  in  the  berry  season  such  a  summit  will  be 
swarming  with  pickers.  A  hundred  at  once  will  rush 
thither  from  all  the  surrounding  villages,  with  pails  and 
buckets  of  all  descriptions,  especially  on  a  Sunday, 
which  is  their  leisure  day.  When  camping  on  such 
ground,  thinking  myself  quite  out  of  the  world,  I  have 
had  my  solitude  very  unexpectedly  interrupted  by  such 
an  advent,  and  foimd  that  the  week-days  were  the  only 
Sabbath-days  there. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Blueberry  Blossoms 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1860]  BLUEBERRIES  301 

For  a  mile  or  more  on  such  a  rocky  mountain-top 
this  will  be  the  prevailing  shrub,  occupying  every  little 
shelf  from  several  rods  down  to  a  few  inches  only  in 
width,  and  then  the  berries  droop  in  short  wreaths  over 
the  rocks,  sometimes  the  thickest  and  largest  along  a 
seam  in  a  shelving  rock,  —  either  that  light  mealy-blue, 
or  a  shining  black,  or  an  intermediate  blue,  without 
bloom.  When,  at  that  season,  I  look  from  Concord 
toward  the  blue  mountain-tops  in  the  horizon,  I  am 
reminded  that  near  at  hand  they  are  equally  blue  with 
berries. 

The  mountain-tops  of  New  England,  often  lifted 
above  the  clouds,  are  thus  covered  with  this  beautiful 
blue  fruit,  in  greater  profusion  than  in  any  garden. 

What  though  the  woods  be  cut  down,  this  emergency  V 
was  long  ago  foreseen  and  provided  for  by  Nature,  and 
the  interregnum  is  not  allowed  to  be  a  barren  one.  She 
is  full  of  resources:  she  not  only  begins  instantly  to 
heal  that  scar,  but  she  consoles  (compensates?)  and 
refreshes  us  with  fruits  such  as  the  forest  did  not  pro- 
duce. To  console  us  she  heaps  our  baskets  with 
berries. 

The  timid  or  ill-shod  confine  themselves  to  the  land 
side,  where  they  get  comparatively  few  berries  and 
many  scratches,  but  the  more  adventurous,  making 
their  way  through  the  open  swamp,  which  the  bushes 
overhang,  wading  amid  the  water  andromeda  and 
sphagnum,  where  the  surface  quakes  for  a  rod  around, 
obtain  access  to  those  great  drooping  clusters  of  berries 
which  no  hand  has  disturbed.  There  is  no  wilder  and 
richer  sight  than  is  aflForded  from  such  a  point  of  view. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


302  JOURNAL  [Dec.  30 

of  the  edge  of  a  blueberry  swamp  where  various  wild 
berries  are  intermixed. 

As  the  sandalwood  is  said  to  diffuse  its  perfume 
around  the  woodman  who  cuts  it,  so  in  this  case  Nature 
rewards  with  unexpected  fruits  the  hand  that  lays  her 
waste. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


VI 

1861 

(MT.  43-44) 

Jan.  3.  The  third  considerable  snow-storm. 

The  berries  which  I  celebrate  appear  to  have  a 
range  —  most  of  them  —  very  nearly  coterminous  with 
what  has  been  called  the  Algonquin  Family  of  Indians, 
whose  territories  are  now  occupied  by  the  Eastern, 
Middle,  and  Northwestern  States  and  the  Canadas, 
and  completely  surrounded  those  of  the  Iroquois,  who 
occupied  what  is  now  the  State  of  New  York.  These 
were  the  small  fruits  of  the  Algonquin  and  Iroquois 
families.  The  Algonquins  appear  to  have  described  this 
kind  of  fruits  generally  by  words  ending  in  the  syllables 
meenar. 

It  is  true  we  have  in  the  Northern  States  a  few  wild 
plums  and  inedible  crab-apples,  a  few  palatable  grapes 
and  nuts,  but  I  think  that  our  various  species  of  beiries 
are  our  wild  fruits  to  be  compared  with  the  more  cele- 
brated ones  of  the  tropics,  and  that,  taking  all  things 
into  consideration.  New  England  will  bear  comparison 
with  the  West  India  Islands.  I  have  not  heard  of  any 
similar  amusement  there  superior  to  huckleberrying 
here,  the  object  not  being  merely  to  get  a  shipload  of 
something  which  you  can  eat  or  sell. 

Why  should  the  Ornamental  Tree  Society  confine  its 
labors  to  the  highway  only  ?  An  Englishman  laying  out 


Digitized  by 


Google 


304  JOURNAL  [Jan.  3 

his  ground  does  not  regard  simply  the  avenues  and 
walks.    Does  not  the  landscape  deserve  attention  ? 

What  are  the  natural  features  which  make  a  township 
handsome  ?  A  river,  with  its  waterfalls  and  meadows, 
a  lake,  a  hill,  a  cUflF  or  individual  rocks,  a  forest,  and 
ancient  trees  standing  singly.  Such  things  are  beau- 
tiful; they  have  a  high  use  which  dollars  and  cents  never 
represent.  If  the  inhabitants  of  a  town  were  wise,  they 
would  seek  to  preserve  these  things,  though  at  a  consid- 
erable expense;  for  such  things  educate  far  more  than 
any  hired  teachers  or  preachers,  or  any  at  present  re- 
cognized system  of  school  education.  I  do  not  think 
him  fit  to  be  the  founder  of  a  state  or  even  of  a  town 
who  does  not  foresee  the  use  of  these  things,  but  legis- 
lates chiefly  for  oxen,  as  it  were. 

-  '  Far  the  handsomest  thing  I  saw  in  Boxboro  was  its 
noble  oak  wood.  I. doubt  if  there  is  a  finer  one  in 
Massachusetts.  Let  her  keep  it  a  century  longer,  and 
men  will  make  pilgrimages  to  it  from  all  parts  of  the 
country;  and  yet  it  would  be  very  like  the  rest  of  New 
England  if  Boxboro  were  ashamed  of  that  woodland. 

I  have  since  heard,  however,  that  she  is  contented  to 
have  that  forest  stand  instead  of  the  houses  and  farms 
that  might  supplant  [it],  because  the  land  pays  a  much 
larger  tax  to  the  town  now  than  it  would  then. 

I  said  to  myself,  if  the  history  of  this  town  is  written, 
the  chief  stress  is  probably  laid  on  its  parish  and  there 
is  not  a  word  about  this  forest  in  it. 

It  would  be  worth  the  while  if  in  each  town  there 
were  a  committee  appointed  to  see  that  the  beauty  of 
the  town  received  no  detriment.   If  we  have  tlie  largest 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  OWNERSHIP  OF  MOUNTAIN-TOPS  305 

boulder  in  the  county,  then  it  should  not  belong  to  an 
individual,  nor  be  made  into  door-steps. 

As  in  many  countries  precious  metals  belong  to  the, 
crown,  so  here  more  precious  natural  objects  of  rare 
beauty  should  belong  to  the  public. 

Not  only  the  channel  but  one  or  both  banks  of  every 
river  should  be  a  public  highway.  The  only  use  of  a 
river  is  not  to  float  on  it. 

Think  of  a  mountain-top  in  the  township  —  even  to 
the  minds  of  the  Indians  a  sacred  place  —  only  acces- 
sible through  private  grounds!  a  temple,  as  it  were, 
which  you  cannot  enter  except  by  trespassing  and  at 
the  risk  of  letting  out  or  letting  in  somebody's  cattle! 
in  fact  the  temple  itself  in  this  case  private  property 
and  standing  in  a  man's  cow-yard,  —  for  such  is  com- 
monly the  case! 

New  Hampshire  courts  have  lately  been  deciding  — 
as  if  it  was  for  them  to  decide  —  whether  the  top  of 
Mt.  Washington  belonged  to  A  or  to  B;  and,  it  being 
decided  in  favor  of  B,  as  I  hear,  he  went  up  one  winter 
with  the  proper  officer  and  took  formal  possession  of 
it.  But  I  think  that  the  top  of  Mt.  Washington  should 
not  be  private  property;  it  should  be  left  unappro- 
priated for  modesty  and  reverence's  sake,  or  if  only  to 
suggest  that  earth  has  higher  uses  than  we  put  her  to. 
I  know  it  is  a  mere  figure  of  speech  to  talk  about  temples 
nowadays,  when  men  recognize  none,  and,  indeed,  asso- 
ciate the  word  with  heathenism. 

It  is  true  we  as  yet  take  liberties  and  go  across  lots, 
and  steal,  or  '*  hook,"  a  good  many  things,  but  we  nat- 
urally take  fewer  and  fewer  liberties  every  year,  as  we 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


\ 


306  JOURNAL  [Jan.  3 

meet  with  more  resistance.  In  old  eountries,  as  Eng- 
land, going  across  lots  is  out  of  the  question.  You  must 
walk  in  some  beaten  path  or  other,  though  it  may  [be] 
a  narrow  one.  We  are  tending  to  the  same  state  of  things 
here,  when  practically  a  few  will  have  grounds  of  their 
own,  but  most  will  have  none  to  walk  over  but  what  the 
few  allow  them« 

Thus  we  behave  like  oxen  in  a  flower-garden.  The 
true  fruit  of  Nature  can  only  be  plucked  with  a  delicate 
hand  not  bribed  by  any  earthly  reward,  and  a  fluttering 
heart.   No  hired  man  can  help  us  to  gather  this  crop. 

How  few  ever  get  beyond  feeding,  clothing,  sheltering, 
and  warming  themselves  in  this  world,  and  begin  to 
treat  themselves  as  human  beings,  —  as  intellectual  and 
moral  beings !  Most  seem  not  to  see  any  further,  —  not 
to  see  over  the  ridge-pole  of  their  bams,  —  or  to  be 
exhausted  and  accomplish  nothing  more  than  a  full 
bam,  though  it  may  be  accompanied  by  an  empty  head. 
They  venture  a  little,  run  some  risks,  when  it  is  a  ques- 
tion of  a  larger  crop  of  com  or  potatoes;  but  they  are 
commonly  timid  and  count  their  coppers,  when  the 
question  is  whether  their  children  shall  be  educated. 
He  who  has  the  reputation  of  being  the  thriftiest  farmer 
and  making  the  best  bargains  is  really  the  most  thrift- 
less and  makes  the  worst.  It  is  safest  to  invest  in 
knowledge,  for  the  probability  is  that  you  can  carry 
that  with  you  wherever  you  go. 

But  most  men,  it  seems  to  me,  do  not  care  for  Nature 
and  would  sell  their  share  in  all  her  beauty,  as  long  as 
they  may  live,  for  a  stated  sum  —  many  for  a  glass  of 
rum.  Thank  God,  men  cannot  as  yet  fly,  and  lay  waste 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]      THE   OBJECT   OF  EXISTENCE        307 

the  sky  as  well  as  the  earth!  We  are  safe  on  that  side 
for  the  present.  It  is  for  the  very  reason  that  some  do 
not  care  for  those  things  that  we  need  to  continue  to 
protect  all  from  the  vandalism  of  a  few. 

We  cut  down  the  few  old  oaks  which  witnessed  the 
transfer  of  the  township  from  the  Indian  to  the  white 
man,  and  commence  our  museum  with  a  cartridge-box 
taken  from  a  British  soldier  in  1775 ! 

He  pauses  at  the  end  of  his  four  or  five  thousand 
dollars,  and  then  only  fears  that  he  has  not  got  enough 
to  carry  him  through,  —  that  is,  merely  to  pay  for  what 
he  will  eat  and  wear  and  bum  and  for  his  lodging  for 
the  rest  of  his  life.  But,  pray,  what  does  he  stay  here 
for?  Suicide  would  be  cheaper.  Indeed,  it  would  be 
nobler  to  found  some  good  institution  with  the  money 
and  then  cut  your  throat.  If  such  is  the  whole  upshot 
of  their  living,  I  think  that  it  would  be  most  profitable 
for  all  such  to  be  carried  or  put  through  by  being  dis- 
charged from  the  mouth  of  a  cannon  as  fast  as  they 
attained  to  years  of  such  discretion. 

As  boys  are  sometimes  required  to  show  an  excuse 
for  being  absent  from  school,  so  it  seems  to  me  that 
men  should  show  some  excuse  for  being  here.  Move 
along;  you  may  come  upon  the  town,  sir. 

I  noticed  a  week  or  two  ago  that  one  of  my  white 
pines,  some  six  feet  high  with  a  thick  top,  was  bent  under 
a  great  burden  of  veiy  moist  snow,  almost  to  the  point 
of  breaking,  so  that  an  ounce  more  of  weight  would 
surely  have  broken  it.  As  I  was  confined  to  the  house 
by  sickness,  and  the  tree  had  already  been  four  or  five 
days  in  that  position,  I  despaired  of  its  ever  recovering 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


308  JOURNAL  [Jan.  3 

itself;  but,  greatly  to  my  surprise,  when,  a  few  days 
after,  the  snow  had  melted  oflF,  I  saw  the  tree  almost 
perfectly  upright  again. 

It  is  evident  that  trees  will  bear  to  be  bent  by  this 
caus6  and  at  this  season  much  more  than  by  the  hand 
of  man.  Probably  the  less  harm  is  done  in  the  first  place 
by  the  weight  being  so  gradually  applied,  and  perhaps 
the  tree  is  better  able  to  bear  it  at  this  season  of  the  year. 

Jan.  8.  Trees,  etc.,  covered  with  a  dense  lioar  frost. 
It  is  not  leaf -like,  but  composed  of  large  spiculse — spear- 
like —  on  the  northeast  sides  of  the  twigs,  the  side  from 
which  the  mist  was  blown.  All  trees  are  bristling  with 
these  spiculse  on  that  side,  especially  firs  and  arbor- 
vitae. 

They  taught  us  not  only  the  use  of  com  and  how  to 
plant  it,  but  also  of  whortleberries  and  how  to  dry 
them  for  winter,  and  made  us  baskets  to  put  them  in. 
We  should  h^ve  hesitated  long  to  eat  some  kinds,  if  they 
had  not  set  us  the  example,  knowing  by  old  experience 
that  they  were  not  only  harmless  but  salutary.  I  have 
added  a  few  to  my  number  of  edible  berries  by  walking 
behind  an  Indian  in  Maine,  who  ate  such  as  I  never 
thought  of  tasting  before.  Of  course  they  made  a  much 
greater  account  of  wild  fruits  than  we  do. 

It  appears  from  the  above  evidence  ^  that  the  Indians 
used  their  dried  berries  commonly  in  the  form  of  huckle- 
l:)erry  cake,  and  also  of  huckleberry  porridge  or  pudding. 

What  we  call  huckleberry  cake,  made  of  Indian  meal 

^  [The  "evidence"  was  omitted  from  the  Journal.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE  309 

and  huckleberries,  was  evidently  the  principal  cake  of 
the  aborigines,  and  was  generally  known  and  used  by 
them  all  over  this  part  of  North  America,  as  much 
or  more  than  plum-cake  by  us.  They  enjoyed  it  all 
alone  ages  before  our  ancestors  heard  of  Indian  meal 
or  huckleberries. 

We  have  no  national  cake  so  universal  and  well 
known  as  this  was  in  all  parts  of  the  country  where 
com  and  huckleberries  grew. 

If  you  had  travelled  here  a  thousand  years  ago,  it 
would  probably  have  been  offered  you  alike  on  the 
Connecticut,  the  Potomac,  the  Niagara,  the  Ottawa, 
and  the  Mississippi. 

Botanists  have  long  been  inclined  to  associate  this 
family  in  some  way  with  Mt.  Ida,  and,  according  to 
Toumefort  arrange  [sic]  whortleberries  were  what 
the  ancients  meant  by  the  vine  of  Mt.  Ida,  and  the 
common  English  raspberr}'  is  called  Rubus  Idams  from 
the  old  Greek  name.  The  truth  of  it  seems  to  be  that 
blueberries  and  raspberries  flourish  best  in  cool  and 
airy  situations  on  hills  and  mountains,  and  I  can  easily 
believe  that  something  like  them,  at  least,  grows  on  Mt. 
Ida.  But  Mt.  Monadnock  is  as  good  as  Mt.  Ida,  and 
probably  better  for  blueberries,  though  it  does  not  [sici 
mean  "  bad  rock,"  —  but  the  worst  rocks  are  the  best 
for  blueberries  and  for  poets. 

Jan,  11.  Horace  Mann  brings  me  the  contents  of  a 
crow's  stomach  in  alcohol.  It  was  killed  in  the  village 
within  a  day  or  two.  It  is  quite  a  mass  of  frozen-thawed 
apple,  —  pulp  and  skin,  —  with  a  good  many  pieces  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


310  JOURNAL  [Jan.  11 

skunk-cabbage  l)erries  one  fourth  inch  or  less  in  diame- 
ter, and  commonly  showing  the  pale-brown  or  blackish 
outside,  interspersed,  looking  like  bits  of  acorns,  — 
never  a  whole  or  even  half  a  berry,  —  and  t^  o  little 
bones  as  of  frogs  (?)  or  mice  (?)  or  tadpoles ;  also  a 
street  pebble  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  hard  to 
be  distinguished  m  appearance  from  the  cabbage  seeds. 

I  presume  that  every  one  of  my  audience  knows  what 
a  huckleberry  is,  —  has  seen  a  huckleberry,  gathered  a 
huckleberry,  and,  finally,  has  tasted  a  huckleberry,  — 
and,  tliat  being  the  case,  I  think  that  I  need  offer  no 
apology  if  I  make  huckleberries  my  theme  this  evening. 

What  more  encouraging  sight  at  the  end  of  a  long 
ramble  than  the  endless  successive  patches  of  green 
bushes,  —  perhaps  in  some  rocky  pasture,  —  fairly 
blackened  with  the  profusion  of  fresh  and  glossy  berries  ? 

There  are  so  many  of  these  berries  in  their  season 
that  most  do  not  perceive  that  birds  and  quadrupeds 
make  any  use  of  them,  since  they  are  not  felt  to  rob  us; 
yet  they  are  more  important  to  them  than  to  us.  We 
do  not  notice  the  robin  when  it  plucks  a  berry,  as  when 
it  visits  our  favorite  cherry  tree,  and  the  fox  pays  his 
visits  to  the  field  when  we  are  not  there. 

Jan,  14.    Coldest  morning  yet;  20°  (?). 

Pliny  says,  "  In  minimis  Natura  praestat "  (Nature 
excels  in  the  least  things).  The  WeUingtonia  gigantea^ 
the  famous  California  tree,  is  a  great  thing;  the  seed 
from  which  it  sprang,  a  little  thing;  and  so  are  all  seeds 
or  origins  of  things. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  NATURE'S  LEISURELINESS  811 

Richard  Porson  said:  "We  all  speak  in  metaphors. 
Those  who  appear  not  to  do  it,  only  use  those  which  are 
worn  out,  and  are  overlooked  as  metaphors.  The 
original  fellow  is  therefore  regarded  as  only  witty;  and 
the  dull  are  consulted  as  the  wise."  He  might  have 
said  that  the  former  spoke  a  dead  language. 

John  Home  Tooke  is  reported  in  ''Recollections" 
by  Samuel  Rogers  as  having  said:  ''Read  few  books 
well.  We  forget  names  and  dates;  and  reproach  our 
memory.  They  are  of  little  consequence.  We  feel  our 
limbs  enlarge  and  strengthen ;  yet  cannot  tell  the  dinner 
or  dish  that  caused  the  alteration.  Our  minds  improve 
though  we  cannot  name  the  author,  and  have  forgotten 
the  particulars."  I  think  that  the  opposite  would  be 
the  truer  statement,  books  differ  so  immensely  in  their 
nutritive  qualities,  and  good  ones  are  so  rare. 

Gosse,  in  his  "  Letters  from  Alabama,"  says  that  he 
thinks  he  saw  a  large  dragon-fly  (^slona)^  which  was 
hawking  over  a  brook,  catch  and  devour  some  minnows 
about  one  inch  long,  and  says  it  is  known  that  "the 
larvae  of  the  greater  water-beetles  (Dyticidce)  devour 
fish." 

It  is  the  discovery  of  science  that  stupendous 
changes  in  the  earth's  surface,  such  as  are  referred  to  the 
Deluge,  for  instance,  are  the  result  of  causes  still  in 
operation,  which  have  been  at  work  for  an  incalculable 
period.  There  has  not  been  a  sudden  re-formation,  or, 
as  it  were,  new  creation  of  the  world,  but  a  steady 
progress  according  to  existing  laws.  The  same  is  true 
in  detail  also.  It  is  a  vulgar  prejudice  that  some  plants 
are    "spontaneously   generated,"    but    science    knows 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


312  JOURNAL  [Jan.  14 

that  they  eome  from  seeds,  i.  e.  are  the  result  of  causes 
still  in  operation,  however  slow  and  unobserved.  It  is 
a  common  saying  that  **  little  strokes  fall  great  oaks," 
and  it  does  not  imply  much  wisdom  in  him  who  ori- 
ginated it.  The  sound  of  the  axe  invites  our  attention 
to  such  a  catastrophe;  we  can  easily  count  each  stroke 
as  it  is  given,  and  all  the  neighborhood  is  informed 
by  a  loud  crash  when  the  deed  is  consummated.  But 
such,  too,  is  the  rise  of  the  oak;  little  strokes  of  a  diflFer- 
ent  kind  and  often  repeated  raise  great  oaks,  but 
scarcely  a  traveller  hears  these  or  turns  aside  to  con- 
verse with  Nature,  who  is  dealing  them  the  while. 

Nature  is  slow  but  sure;  she  works  no  faster  than 
need  be;  she  is  the  tortoise  that  wins  the  race  by  her 
perseverance;  she  knows  that  seeds  have  many  other 
uses  than  to  reproduce  their  kind.  In  raising  oaks  and 
pines,  she  works  with  a  leisureliness  and  security 
answering  to  the  age  and  strength  of  the  trees.  If 
every  acorn  of  this  year's  crop  is  destroyed,  never 
fear!  she  has  more  years  to  come.  It  is  not  necessary 
that  a  pine  or  an  oak  should  bear  fruit  every  year,  as 
it  is  that  a  pea-vine  should.  So,  botanically,  the  greatest 
changes  in  the  landscape  are  produced  more  gradually 
than  we  expected.  If  Nature  has  a  pine  or  an  oak 
wood  to  produce,  she  manifests  no  haste  about  it. 

Thus  we  should  say  that  oak  forests  are  produced 
by  a  kind  of  accident,  i.  e.  by  the  failure  of  animals 
to  reap  the  fruit  of  their  labors.  Yet  who  shall  say  that 
they  have  not  a  fair  knowledge  of  the  value  of  their 
labors  —  that  the  squirrel  when  it  plants  an  acorn. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  A  TALK  WITH  RICE  813 

or  the  jay  when  it  lets  one  slip  from  under  its  foot,  has 
not  a  transient  thought  for  its  posterity  ? 

Possibly  here,  a  thousand  years  hence,  every  oak  will 
know  the  human  hand  that  planted  it. 

How  many  of  the  botanist's  arts  and  inventions  are 
thus  but  the  rediscovery  of  a  lost  art,  i.  e.  lost  to  him 
here  or  elsewhere ! 

Horace  Mann  told  me  some  days  ago  that  he  found, 
near  the  shore  in  that  muddy  bay  by  the  willows  in  the 
rear  of  Mrs.  Ripley's,  a  great  many  of  the  Stemothcsrus 
odoratus,  assembled,  he  supposed,  at  their  breeding- 
time,  or,  rather,  about  to  come  out  to  lay  their  eggs. 
He  waded  in  [and]  collected  —  I  think  he  said  —  about 
a  hundred  and  fifty  of  them  for  Agassiz ! 

I  see  in  the  Boston  Journal  an  account  of  robins  in 
numbers  on  the  savin  trees  in  that  neighborhood, 
feeding  on  their  berries.  This  suggests  that  they  may 
plant  its  berries  as  well  as  the  crows. 

Jan.  15.  More  snow  last  night,  and  still  the  first 
that  fell  remains  on  the  ground.  Rice  thinks  that  it  is 
two  feet  deep  on  a  level  now.  We  have  had  no  thaw  yet. 

Rice  tells  me  that  he  baits  the  "seedees"  and  the 
jays  and  crows  to  his  door  nowadays  with  com.  He 
thinks  he  has  seen  one  of  these  jays  stow  away  some- 
where, without  swallowing,  as  many  as  a  dozen  grains  of 
com,  for,  after  picking  it  up,  it  will  fiy  up  into  a  tree 
near  by  and  deposit  so  many  successively  in  diflFerent 
crevices  before  it  descends. 

Speaking  of  Roman  wormwood  springing  up  abun- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


314  JOURNAL  [Jan.  15 

dantly  when  a  field  which  has  been  in  grass  for  twenty 
years  or  more  is  plowed,  Rice  says  that,  if  you  carefully 
examine  such  a  field  before  it  is  plowed,  you  will  find 
very  short  and  stinted  specimens  of  wormwood  and 
pigweed  there,  — and  remarkably  full  of  seed  too! 

Feb.  5.  Horace  Mann  brings  me  a  screech  owl,  which 
was  caught  in  Hastings's  bam  on  the  meeting-house 
avenue.  It  had  killed  a  dove  there.  This  is  a  decidedly 
gray  owl,  with  none  of  the  reddish  or  nut  brown  of  the 
specimen  of/ December  26,  though  it  is  about  the  same 
size,  and  answers  exactly  to  Wilson's  mottled  owl. 

Rice  brings  me  an  oak  stick  with  a  woodpecker's  hole 
in  it  by  which  it  reached  a  pupa. 

The  first  slight  rain  and  thaw  of  this  winter  was  Feb- 
ruary 2d. 

Feb.  8.  Coldest  day  yet;  -22°  at  least  (all  we  can 
read),  at  8  a.  m.,  and,  [so  far]  as  I  can  learn,  not  above 
-6°  all  day. 

Feb.  15.  A  little  thunder  and  lightning  late  in  the 
afternoon.   I  see  two  flashes  and  hear  two  claps. 

A  kitten  is  so  flexible  that  she  is  almost  double;  the 
hind  parts  are  equivalent  to  another  kitten  with  which 
the  fore  part  plays.  She  does  not  discover  that  her  tail 
belongs  to  her  till  you  tread  upon  it. 

How  eloquent  she  can  be  with  her  tail !  Its  sudden 
swellings  and  vibrations!  She  jumps  into  a  chair  and 
then  stands  on  her  hind  legs  to  look  out  the  window; 
looks  steadily  at  objects  far  and  near,  first  turning  her 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  A  KITTEN  815 

gaze  to  this  side  then  to  that,  for  she  loves  to  look  out  a 
window  as  much  as  any  gossip.  Ever  and  anon  she 
bends  back  her  ears  to  hear  what  is  going  on  within  the 
room,  and  all  the  while  her  eloquent  tail  is  reporting 
the  progress  and  success  of  her  survey  by  speaking 
gestures  which  betray  her  interest  in  what  she  sees. 

Then  what  a  delicate  hint  she  can  give  with  her  tail! 
passing  perhaps  underneath,  as  you  sit  at  table,  and 
letting  the  tip  of  her  tail  just  touch  your  legs,  as  much 
as  to  say,  I  am  here  and  ready  for  that  milk  or  meat, 
though  she  may  not  be  so  forward  as  to- look  round  at 
you  when  she  emeiges. 

Only  skin-deep  lies  the  feral  nature  of  the  cat,  un- 
changed still.  I  just  had  the  misfortune  to  rock  on  to 
our  cat's  leg,  as  she  was  lying  playfully  spread  out  under 
my  chair.  Imagine  the  sound  that  arose,  and  which 
was  excusable;  but  what  will  you  say  to  the  fierce 
growls  and  flashing  eyes  with  which  she  met  me  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  thereafter?  No  tiger  in  its  jungle 
could  have  been  savager. 

Feb.  21.  I  have  just  read  a  book  called  "Carolina 
Sports  by  Land  and  Water;  including  Incidents  of 
Devil-Fishing,  Wild-cat,  Deer  and  Bear  Hunting,  Etc. 
By  the  Hon.  Wm.  Elliott." 

The  writer  is  evidently  a  regular  sportsman,  and  de- 
scribes his  sporting  with  great  zest.  He  was  withal  the 
inventor  and  institutor  of  devil-fishing,  which  consists 
in  harpooning  a  monstrous  salt-water  fish,  and  repre- 
sents himself  in  a  plate  harpooning  him.  His  motive, 
however,  was  not  profit  or  a  subsistence,  but  sport. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


316  JOURNAL  [Feb.  21 

However,  I  should  have  found  nothing  peculiar  in  the 
book,  if  it  did  not  contain,  near  the  end,  so  good  an  ex- 
ample of  human  inconsistency.  I  quote  some  sentences 
in  the  order  in  which  they  occur,  only  omitting  the  inter- 
mediate pages.  After  having  described  at  length  his  own 
sporting  exploits,  using  such  words  as  these,  for  instance. 
Being  in  pursuit  of  a  wildcat,  he  says  (page  163) :  — 

"  It  was  at  this  moment  that  Dash,  espying  something 
in  motion  in  the  leafy  top  of  a  bay-tree,  cracked  off  his 
Joe  Manton  with  such  good  effect,  that  presently  we 
heard  a  heavy  body  come  tumbling  through  the  limbs 
until  it  splashed  into  the  water.  Then  came  a  stunning 
burst  from  the  hounds — a  clash  from  the  whole  orches- 
tra in  full  chorus !  —  a  growl  from  the  assailed,  with  an 
occasional  squeak  on  the  part  of  the  assailants,  which 
showed  that  the  game  was  not  all  on  one  side.  We  were 
compelled,  all  the  while,  to  be  delighted  ear-witnesses 
only  of  the  strife,  which  resulted  in  the  victory  of  the 
hounds."  This  proved  to  be  a  raccoon,  though  they 
thought  it  the  wildcat. 

Again  (page  168),  being  in  pursuit  of  another  cat, 
which  had  baffled  them  a  long  time  with  great  cunning, 
he  says :  "  The  cat,  with  huge  leaps,  clambered  up  a  tree ; 
and  now  he  had  reached  the  very  pinnacle,  and  as  he 
gathered  himself  up  to  take  a  flying  leap  for  a  neighbor- 
ing tree,  I  caught  up  my  gun,  and  let  slip  at  him  in 
mid-flight.  The  arrowy  posture  in  which  he  made  his 
pitch,  was  suddenly  changed,  as  the  shot  struck  him 
to  the  heart;  and  doubling  himself  up,  after  one  or  two 
wild  gyrations,  into  a,heap,  he  fell  dead,  from  a  height 
of  full  fifty  feet,  into  the  very  jaws  of  the  dogs!" 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  "CAROLINA  SPORTS"  317^ 

Again  (page  178),  being  [in]  pursuit  of  a  deer,  which 
he  had  wounded,  and  his  gun  being  discharged,  he 
tried  to  run  him  down  with  his  horse,  but,  as  he  tells  us, 
"the  noble  animal  refused  to  trample  on  his  fellow 
quadruped,"  so  he  made  up  for  it  by  kicking  the  deer 
in  the  side  of  the  head  with  his  spurred  boot.  The  deer 
enters  a  thicket  and  he  is  compelled  to  pursue  tbe  pant- 
ing animal  on  foot.  "  A  large  fallen  oak  lies  across  his 
path;  he  gathers  himself  up  for  the  leap,  and  falls 
exhausted  directly  across  it.  Before  he  could  recover 
his  legs,  and  while  he  lay  thus  poised  on  the  tree,  I 
fling  myself  at  full  length  upon  the  body  of  the  strug- 
gling deer  —  my  left  hand  clasps  his  neck,  while  my 
right  detaches  the  knife;  whose  fatal  blade,  in  an- 
other moment,  is  buried  in  his  throat.  There  he  lay  in 
his  blood,  and  I  remained  sole  occupant  of  the  field." 
Opposite  is  a  plate  which  represents  him  in  the  act  of 
stabbing  the  deer. 

Page  267.  —  He  tells  us  that  his  uncle  once  had  a 
young  wildcat,  —  a  mere  kitten,  —  but  that,  to  prevent 
its  worrying  the  poultry,  "  a  cord  was  fastened  round  his 
neck,  and  a  clog  attached  to  the  end."  Still  he  would 
endeavor  to  catch  the  fowls. 

"  My  uncle  one  day  invited  several  of  his  friends,  to 
witness  this  development  of  natural  propensity  in  his 
savage  pet.  The  kitten,  with  his  clog  attached,  was  let 
out  of  the  box;  and  it  was  curious  to  observe  with  what 
stealthy  pace  he  approached  the  spot  where  the  poultry 
were  feeding.  They  scarcely  seemed  to  notice  the  dimin- 
utive thing  that  was  creeping  toward  them;  when, 
crouching  low,  and  measuring  exactly  the  distance  which 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


•318  JOURNAL  [Feb.  21 

separated  them,  he  sprang  upon  the  back  of  the  old 
rooster,  and  hung  on  by  claw  and  teeth  to  the  feathers, 
while  the  frightened  bird  dragged  him,  clog  and  all, 
over  the  yard.  After  several  revolutions  had  been  made, 
the  cat  let  go  his  hold  on  the  back  of  the  fowl,  and,  with 
the  quickness  of  lightning,  caught  the  head  in  his  mouth, 
clinche4  his  teeth,  shut  his  eyes,  stiffened  his  legs,  and 
hung  on  with  the  most  desperate  resolution,  while  the 
fowl,  rolling  over  in  agony,  buffeted  him  with  his  wings. 
All  in  vain !  In  a  few  seconds  more  he  was  dead,  and 
we  looked  with  abhorrence  on  the  savage  animal,  that 
had  just  taken  his  first  degree  in  blood.  In  this  case, 
there  could  have  been  no  teaching  —  no  imitation.  It 
was  the  undoubted  instinct  of  a  cruel  nature!  We 
wondered  that  this  young  beast  of  prey  should  have 
known,  from  this  instinct,  the  vital  part  of  its  victim  !  — 
and  we  wondered  still  more,  that  in  the  providence  of 
God,  he  had  seen  fit  to  create  an  animal  with  an  instinct 
so  murderous.  Philosophy  is  ready  with  her  explanation, 
and  our  abhorrence  may  be  misplaced,  since  from  his 
very  organization,  he  is  compelled  to  destroy  life  in 
order  to  live  I  Yet,  knowing  this,  our  abhorrence  still 
continues;  whence  we  may  draw  the  consolatory  con- 
clusion —  that  the  instincts  of  a  man  naturally  differ 
from  those  of  a  wild^cat." 

A  few  pages  further  (page  282)  in  a  chapter  called 
**  Random  Thoughts  on  Hunting,"  which  is  altogether 
a  eulogy  on  that  pursuit,  he  praises  it  because  it  devel- 
ops or  cultivates  among  other  qualities  "the  observation, 
that  familiarizes  itself  with  the  nature  and  habits  of  the 
quarry  —  the  sagacity  that  anticipates  its  projects  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  THE  SQUIRREL  AND  THE  CONE     819 

escape — and  the  promptUyde  that  defeats  them!  — 
the  rapid  glance,  the  steady  aim,  the  quick  perception, 
the  ready  execution ;  these  are  among  the  faculties  and 
qualities  continually  called  into  pleasing  exercise." 
Physician,  heal  thyself! 

This  plucking  and  stripping  a  pine  cone  is  a  business 
which  he  and  his  family  understand  perfectly.  That 
is  their  forte.  I  doubt  if  you  could  suggest  any  improve- 
ment. After  ages  of  experiment  their  instinct  has  set- 
tled on  the  same  method  that  our  reason  would  finally, 
if  we  had  to  open  a  pine  cone  with  our  teeth;  and  they 
were  thus  accomplished  before  our  race  knew  that  a 
pine  cone  contained  any  seed. 

He  does  not  prick  his  fingers,  nor  pitch  his  whiskers, 
nor  gnaw  the  solid  core  any  more  than  is  necessary.  Hav- 
ing sheared  off  the  twigs  and  needles  that  may  be  in  his 
way,  —  for  like  a  skillful  woodchopper  he  first  secures 
room  and  verge  enough,  —  he  neatly  cuts  off  the  stout 
stem  of  the  cone  with  a  few  strokes  of  his  chisels,  and 
it  is  his.  To  be  sure,  he  may  let  it  fall  to  the  ground  and 
look  down  at  it  for  a  moment  curiously,  as  if  it  were  not 
his ;  but  he  is  taking  note  where  it  lies  and  adding  it  to 
a  heap  of  a  hundred  more  like  it  in  his  mind,  and  it 
now  is  only  so  much  the  more  his  for  his  seeming  care- 
lessness. And,  when  the  hour  comes  to  open  it,  observe 
how  he  proceeds.  He  holds  it  in  his  hands,  —  a  solid 
embossed  cone,  so  hard  it  almost  rings  at  the  touch  of 
his  teeth.  He  pauses  for  a  moment  perhaps,  —  but  not 
because  he  does  not  know  how  to  begin,  —  he  only 
listens  to  hear  what  is  in  the  wind,  not  being  in  a  hurry. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


320  JOURNAL  [Feb.  21 

He  knows  better  than  try  to  cut  oflf  the  tip  and  work 
his  way  downward  against  a  cfievaux-de-frise  of  ad- 
vanced scales  and  prickles,  or  to  gnaw  into  the  side  for 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  the  face  of  many  armed 
shields.  But  he  does  not  have  to  think  of  what  he  knows, 
having  heard  the  latest  seolian  rumor.  K  there  ever  was 
an  age  of  the  world  when  the  squirrels  opened  their  cones 
wrong  end  foremost,  it  was  not  the  golden  age  at  any 
rate.  H^  whirls  the  cone  bottom  upward  in  a  twinkling, 
where  the  scales  are  smallest  and  the  prickles  slight  or 
none  and  the  short  stem  is  cut  so  close  as  not  to  be  in  his 
way,  and  then  he  proceeds  to  cut  through  the  thin  and 
tender  bases  of  the  scales,  and  each  stroke  tells,  laying 
bare  at  once  a  couple  of  seeds.  And  then  he  strips  it  as 
easily  as  if  its  scales  were  chaflf,  and  so  rapidly,  twirling 
it  as  he  advances,  that  you  cannot  tell  how  he  does  it 
tiU  you  drive  him  oflf  and  inspect  his  unfinished  work. 

Feb.  27.  2  p.  m.  —  It  is  very  pleasant  and  warm,  and 
the  ground  half  bare.  As  I  am  walking  down  the  Boston 
road  under  the  hill  this  side  Clark's,  it  occurs  to  me  that 
I  have  just  heard  the  twitter  of  a  bluebird.  (C.  heard 
one  the  26th.)  I  stop  and  listen  to  hear  it  again,  but 
cannot  tell  whether  it  comes  from  the  buttonwoods 
high  over  my  head  or  from  the  lower  trees  on  the  hill- 
top. It  is  not  the  complete  bluebird  warble,  but  the 
twitter  only.  And  now  it  seems  to  come  from  Pratt's 
house,  where  the  window  is  open,  and  I  am  not  sure  but 
it  is  a  caged  bird.  I  walk  that  way,  and  now  think  that 
I  distinguish  the  minstrel  in  a  black  speck  in  the  top 
of  a  great  elm  on  the  Common.     Messer  is  shingling 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  THE   FIRST  BLUEBIRD  321 

Clark's  bam ;  so,  to  make  sure,  I  cross  over  and  ask  him 
if  he  has  heard  a  bluebird  to-day,  and  he  says  he  has 
several  times.  When  I  get  to  the  elm  near  Minott's 
I  hear  one  warble  distinctly.  Miss  Minott  and  Miss 
Potter  have  both  died  within  a  fortnight  past,  and  the 
cottage  on  the  hillside  seems  strangely  deserted;  but 
the  first  bluebird  comes  to  warble  there  as  usual. 

Mother  hears  a  robin  to-day. 

Buttonwood  sap  flows  fast  from  wounds  made  last 
fall. 

Feb.  28.   P.  M.  —  Down  Boston  road  under  the  hill. 

Air  full  of  bluebirds  as  yesterday.  The  sidewalk 
is  bare  and  almost  dry  the  whole  distance  under  the 
hill. 

Turn  in  at  the  gate  this  side  of  Moore's  and  sit  on 
the  yellow  stones  rolled  down  in  the  bay  of  a  digging, 
and  examine  the  radical  leaves,  etc.,  etc. 

Where  the  edges  of  grassy  banks  have  caved  I  see 
the  fine  fibrous  roots  of  the  grass  which  have  been 
washed  bare  during  the  winter  extending  straight 
downward  two  feet  (and  how  much  further  within  the 
earth  I  know  not),  —  a  pretty  dense  grayish  mass. 

The  buttonwood  seed  has  apparently  scarcely  begun 
to  fall  yet,*  — only  two  balls  under  one  tree,  but  they 
loose  and  broken.^ 

March  3.  Sunday.   Hear  that  there  was  a  flock  of 

^  Yes,  many  had  been  blown  bare,  for  the  balls  do  not  fall  often. 
*  Almost  entirely  fallen  March  7th,  leaving  the  dangling  stems  and 
bare  receptacles. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


S22  JOURNAL  [March  3 

geese  in  the  river  last  night.  See  and  hear  song  sparrows 
to-day;   probably  here  for  several  days. 

It  is  an  exceedingly  warm  and  pleasant  day.  The 
snow  is  suddenly  all  gone  •  except  heels,  and  —  what 
is  more  remarkable  —  the  frost  is  generally  out  of  the 
ground,  e.  g.  in  our  garden,  for  the  reason  that  it  has 
not  been  in  it.  The  snow  came  December  4th,  before 
the  ground  was  frozen  to  any  depth,  has  been  unusually 
deep,  and  the  ground  has  not  been  again  exposed  till 
now.  Hence,  though  we  have  had  a  little  very  cold 
weather  and  a  good  deal  of  steady  cold,  the  ground 
generally  has  not  been  frozen. 

March  8.  I  just  heard  peculiar  faint  sounds  made  by 
the  air  escaping  from  a  stick  which  I  had  just  put  into 
my  stove.  It  sounded  to  my  ear  exactly  like  the  peeping 
of  the  hylodes  in  a  distant  pool,  a  cool  and  breezy 
spring  evening,  —  as  if  it  were  designed  to  remind  me 
of  that  season. 

Saw  the  F.  hyemalis  March  4th. 

To  continue  subject  of  March  3d,  — 

It  is  remarkable  that,  though  in  ordinary  winters, 
when  the  ground  is  alternately  bare  and  covered  with 
snow  several  times,  or  is  not  covered  till  after  it  is 
frozen,  it  may  be  frozen  a  foot  or  more  in  depth  gen- 
erally, yet,  if  it  is  kept  covered  with  snow,  though  only 
a  thin  coating,  from  first  to  last,  it  will  not  be  frozen 
at  all. 

For  example,  the  ground  was  half  bare  on  the  27th, 
the  walk  under  the  Boston  road  hills  pretty  fair  on  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


1861]    DISSEMINATION  OF  THE  BIRCH    323 

28th,  and  the  3d,  after  rain,  the  earth  was  bare,  tlie  ways 
were  about  settled,  the  melted  snow  and  rain  having 
been  soaked  up  at  once  by  the  thirsty  and  open  ground. 
There  was  probably  no  frost  on  level  ground  except 
where  the  earth  had  of  late  been  partly  exposed  in  the 
middle  of  the  road.  The  recent  rain  and  melting  accord- 
ingly raised  the  river  less  than  it  otherwise  would. 
There  has  been  no  breaking  up  of  the  frost  on  roads,  — 
no  bad  travelling  as  usual,  —  but  as  soon  as  the  snow 
is  gone,  the  ways  are  settled. 

In  short.  Nature  uses  all  sorts  of  conveyances,  from 
the  rudest  drag  to  a  balloon,  but  she  will  get  her  seeds 
along  in  due  season. 

Is  it  not  possible  that  I^udon  is  right  as  it  respects 
the  primitive  distribution  of  the  birch?  Are  not  the 
dense  patches  always  such  as  have  sprung  up  in  open 
land  (commonly  old  fields  cleared  by  man),  as  is  the 
case  with  the  pitch  pine  ?  It  disappears  at  length  from 
a  dense  oak  or  pine  wood.  Perhaps  originally  it  formed 
dense  woods  only  where  a  space  had  been  cleared  for 
it  by  a  burning,  as  now  at  the  eastward.  Perhaps  only 
the  oaks  and  white  pines  could  (originally)  possess  the 
soil  here  against  all  comers,  maple  succeeding  because 
it  does  not  mind  a  wet  foot. 

Suppose  one  were  to  take  such  a  boxful  of  birch  seed 
as  I  have  described  into  the  meeting-house  belfry  in  the 
fall,  and  let  some  of  it  drop  in  every  wind,  but  always 
more  in  proportion  as  the  wind  was  stronger,  and  yet  so 
husband  it  that  there  should  be  some  left  for  every  gale 
even  till  far  into  spring;    so  that  this  seed  might  be 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


324  JOURNAL  [March  8 

blown  toward  every  point  of  the  compass  and  to  vari- 
ous distances  in  each  direction.  Would  not  this  repre- 
sent a  single  birch  tree  on  a  hill  ?  Of  which  trees  (though 
only  a  part  on  hills)  we  have  perhaps  a  million.  And 
yet  some  feel  compelled  to  suppose  that  the  birch  trees 
which  spring  up  after  a  burning  are  spontaneously 
generated  —  for  want  of  seed !  It  is  true  [it]  does  not 
come  up  in  great  quantities  at  the  distance  I  have 
spoken  of,  but,  if  only  one  comes  up  there  this  year, 
you  may  have  a  million  seeds  matured  there  a  few 
years  hence. 

It  is  true  that  the  greater  part  of  these  seeds  fall 
near  the  trees  which  bore  them,  and  comparatively  few 
germinate ;  yet,  when  the  surface  is  in  a  favorable  condi- 
tion, they  may  spring  up  in  very  unexpected  places. 

A  lady  tells  me  that  she  met  Deacon  S.  of  Lincoln 
with  a  load  of  hay,  and  she,  noticing  that  as  he  drove 
under  the  apple  trees  by  the  side  of  the  road  a  consider- 
able part  of  the  hay  was  raked  oflf  by  their  boughs, 
informed  him  of  it.  But  he  answered,  "  It  is  not  mine 
yet.  I  am  going  to  the  scales  with  it  and  intend  to  come 
back  this  way." 

March  11.  C.  says  that  Walden  is  almost  entirely  open 
to-day,  so  that  the  lines  on  my  map  would  not  strike 
any  ice,  but  that  there  is  ice  in  the  deep  cove.  It  will 
be  open  then  the  12th  or  13th.  This  is  earlier  than  I 
ever  knew  it  to  open.  Fair  Haven  was  solid  ice  two  or 
three  days  ago,  and  probably  is  still,  and  Goose  Pond 
is  to-day  all  ice.     Why,  then,  should  Walden  have 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  WALDEN   OPEN  325 

broken  up  thus  early?  for  it  froze  over  early  and  the 
winter  was  steadily  cold  up  to  February  at  least.  I 
think  it  must  have  been  because  the  ice  was  uncom- 
monly covered  with  snow,  just  as  the  earth  was,  and  so, 
as  there  was  little  or  no  frost  in  the  earth,  the  ice  also 
was  thin,  and  it  did  not  increase  upward  with  snow  ice 
as  much  as  usual  because  there  was  no  thaw  or  rain  at 
all  till  February  2d,  and  then  very  little.  According  to 
all  accounts  there  has  been  no  skating  on  Walden  the 
past  winter  on  account  of  the  snow.  It  was  unusually 
covered  with  snow.  This  shows  how  many  things  are 
to  be  taken  into  account  in  judging  of  such  a  pond.  I 
have  not  been  able  to  go  to  the  pond  the  past  winter. 
I  infer  that,  if  it  has  broken  up  thus  early,  it  must  be 
because  the  ice  was  thin,  and  that  it  was  thin  not  for 
want  of  cold  generally,  but  because  of  the  abundance 
of  snow  which  lay  on  it. 

The  water  is  now  high  on  the  meadows  and  there  is 
no  ice  there,  owing  to  the  recent  heavy  rains.  Yet  C. 
thinks  it  has  been  higher  a  few  weeks  since. 

C.  observes  where  mice  (?)  have  gnawed  the  pitch 
pines  the  past  winter.  Is  not  this  a  phenomenon  of  a 
winter  of  deep  snow  only?  as  that  when  I  lived  at 
Walden, — a  hard  winter  for  them.  I  do  not  com- 
monly observe  it  on  a  large  scale. 

My  Aunt  Sophia,  now  in  her  eightieth  year,  says 
that  when  she  was  a  little  girl  my  grandmother,  who 
lived  in  Kcene,  N.  H.,  eighty  miles  from  Boston,  went 
to  Nova  Scotia,  and,  in  spite  of  all  she  could  do,  her  dog 
Bob,  a  Uttle  black  dog  with  his  tail  cut  off,  followed 
her  to  Boston,  where  she  went  aboard  a  vessel.     Di- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


S26  JOURNAL  [March  11 

rectly  after,  however,  Bob  returned  to  Keene.  One 
day,  Bob,  lying  as  usual  under  his  mistress's  bed  in 
Keene,  the  window  being  open,  heard  a  dog  bark  in  the 
street,  and  instantly,  forgetting  that  he  was  in  the  second 
story,  he  sprang  up  and  jumped  out  the  chamber  win- 
dow. He  came  down  squarely  on  all  fours,  but  it  sur- 
prised or  shocked  him  so  that  he  did  not  run  an  inch, 
— which  greatly  amused  the  children, — my  mother  and 
aunts. 

The  seed  of  the  willow  is  exceedingly  minute,  — as 
I  measure,  from  one  twentieth  to  one  twelfth  of  an 
inch  in  length  by.  one  fourth  as  much  in  width,  —  and 
is  surrounded  at  base  by  a  tuft  of  cotton-like  hairs 
about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  long  rising  around  and 
above  it,  forming  a  kind  of  parachute.  These  render 
it  the  most  buoyant  of  the  seeds  of  any  of  our  trees, 
and  it  is  borne  the  furthest  horizontally  with  the  least 
wind.  It  falls  very  slowly  even  in  the  still  air  of  a 
chamber,  and  rapidly  ascends  over  a  stove.  It  floats 
the  most  like  a  mote  of  any,  —  in  a  meandering  man- 
ner, —  and,  being  enveloped  in  this  tuft  of  cotton,  the 
seed  is  hard  to  detect. 

Each  of  the  numerous  little  pods,  more  or  less  ovate 
and  beaked,  which  form  the  fertile  catkin  is  closely 
packed  with  down  and  seeds.  At  maturity  these  pods 
open  their  beaks,  which  curve  back,  and  gradually 
discharge  their  burden  like  the  milkweed.  It  would 
take  a  delicate  gin  indeed  to  separate  these  seeds  from 
their  cotton. 

If  you  lay  bare  any  spot  in  our  woods,  however 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  THE  WILLOWS  827 

sandy,  —  as  by  a  railroad  cut,  —  no  shrub  or  tree  is 
surer  to  plant  itself  there  sooner  or  later  than  a  willow 
(commonly  S.  humilis  or  tristis)  or  poplar. 

We  have  many  kinds,  but  each  is  confined  to  its 
own  habitat.  I  am  not  aware  that  the  8.  nigra  has  ever 
strayed  from  the  river's  brink.  Though  many  of  the 
8.  alba  have  been  set  along  our  causeways,  very  few 
have  sprung  up  and  maintained  their  ground  elsewhere. 

The  principal  habitat  of  most  of  our  species,  such  as 
love  the  water,  is  the  river's  bank  and  the  adjacent 
river  meadows,  and  when  certain  kinds  spring  up  in  an 
inland  meadow  where  they  were  not  known  before,  I 
feel  pretty  certain  that  they  come  from  the  river  mead- 
ows. I  have  but  little  doubt  that  the  seed  of  four  of 
those  that  grow  along  the  railroad  causeway  was  blown 
from  the  river  meadows,  viz.  8.  pedicellaris^  liccida, 
Torreyanu,  and  petiolaris. 

The  barren  and  fertile  flowers  are  usually  on  sepa- 
rate plants.  I  observe  [  ?  ]  that  the  greater  part  of  the 
white  willows  set  out  on  our  causeways  are  sterile  ones. 
You  can  easily  distinguish  the  fertile  ones  at  a  distance 
when  the  pods  are  bursting.  And  it  is  said  that  no 
sterile  weeping  willows  have  been  introduced  into  this 
country,  so  that  it  cannot  be  raised  from  the  seed.  Of 
two  of  the  indigenous  willows  common  along  the  brink 
of  our  river  I  have  detected  but  one  sex. 

The  seeds  of  the  willow  thus  annually  fill  the  air 
with  their  lint,  being  wafted  to  all  parts  of  the  country, 
and,  though  apparently  not  more  than  one  in  many 
millions  gets  to  be  a  shrub,  yet  so  lavish  and  persevering 
is  Nature  that  her  purpose  is  completely  answered. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


828  JOURNAL  [March  16 

March  16.    A  severe,  blocking-up  snow-storm. 

March  18.  Tree  sparrows  have  warbled  faintly  for 
a  week. 

When  I  pass  by  a  twig  of  willow,  though  of  the  slen- 
derest kind,  rising  above  the  sedge  in  some  dry  hollow 
early  in  December,  or  in  midwinter  above  the  snow, 
my  spirits  rise  as  if  it  were  an  oasis  in  the  desert.  The 
very  name  "sallow"  {salix^  from  the  Celtic  ial-lis,  near 
water)  suggests  that  there  is  some  natural  sap  or  blood 
flowing  there.  It  is  a  divining  wand  that  has  not  failed, 
but  stands  with  its  root  in  the  fountain. 

The  fertile  willow  catkins  are  those  green  caterpillar- 
like  ones,  commonly  an  inch  or  more  in  length,  which 
develop  themselves  rapidly  after  the  sterile  yellow  onesi 
which  we  had  so  admired  are  fallen  or  effete.  Arranged 
around  the  bare  twigs,  they  often  form  green  wands 
eight  to  eighteen  inches  long.  A  single  catkin  consists 
of  from  twenty-five  to  a  hundred  little  pods,  more  or 
less  ovate  and  beaked,  each  of  which  is  closely  packed 
with  cottop,  in  which  are  numerous  seeds  so  small 
that  they  are  scarcely  discernible  by  ordinary  eyes. 

I  do  not  know  what  they  mean  who  call  this  the  em- 
blem of  despairing  love !  "  The  willow,  worn  by  forlorn 
paramour!"  It  is  rather  the  emblem  of  love  and  sym- 
pathy with  all  nature.  It  may  droop,  —  it  is  so  lithe, 
supple,  and  pliant,  —  but  it  never  weeps.  The  willow 
of  Babylon  blooms  not  the  less  hopefully  with  us, 
though  its  other  half  is  not  in  the  New  World  at  all, 
and  never  has  been.  It  droops,  not  to  represent  David's 
tears,  but  rather  to  snatch  the  crown  from  Alexander's 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]    THE  VARIOUS  HABITS   OF  MEN     829 

head.  (Nor  were  poplars  ever  the  weeping  sisters  of 
Phaeton,  for  nothing  rejoices  them  more  than  the  sight 
of  the  Sun's  chariot,  and  little  reck  they  who  drives 

it.) 

Ah,  willow !  willow !  Would  that  I  always  possessed 
thy  good  spirits. 

•  No  wonder  its  wood  was  anciently  in  demand  for 
bucklers,  for,  take  the  whole  tree,  it  is  not  only  soft 
and  pliant  but  tough  and  resilient  (as  Pliny  says  ?),  not 
splitting  at  the  first  blow,  but  closing  its  wounds  at 
once  and  refusing  to  transmit  its  hurts. 

I  know  of  one  foreign  species  which  introduced 
itself  into  Concord  as  [a]  withe  used  to  tie  up  a  bundle 
of  trees.  A  gardener  stuck  it  in  the  ground,  and  it  lived, 
and  has  its  descendants. 

Herodotus  says  that  the  Scythians  divined  by  the 
help  of  willow  rods.  I  do  not  know  any  better  twigs  for 
this  purpose. 

How  various  are  the  habits  of  men !  Mother  says  that 
her  father-in-law.  Captain  Minott,  not  only  used  to 
roast  and  eat  a  long  row  of  little  wild  apples,  reaching 
in  a  semicircle  from  jamb  to  jamb  under  the  andirons 
on  the  reddened  hearth  (I  used  to  buy  many  a  pound  of 
Spanish  brown  at  the  stores  for  mother  to  redden  the 
jambs  and  hearth  with),  but  he  had  a  quart  of  new  milk 
regularly  placed  at  the  head  of  his  bed,  which  he 
drank  at  many  draughts  in  the  course  of  the  night.  It 
was  so  the  night  he  died,  and  my  grandmother  dis- 
covered that  he  was  dying,  by  his  not  turning  over  to 
reach  his  milk.    I  asked  what  he  died  of,  and  mother 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


330  JOURNAI.  [March  18 

answered  apoplexy!  at  which  I  did  not  wonder.    Still 
this  habit  may  not  have  caused  it. 

I  have  a  cousin,  also,  who  regularly  eats  his  bowl 
of  bread  and  milk  just  before  going  to  bed,  however 
late.    He  is  a  very  stirring  man. 

You  can't  read  any  genuine  history  —  as  that  of 

Herodotus  or  the  Venerable  Bede  —  without  perceiving 

that  our  interest  depends  not  on  the  subject  but  on  the 

man,  —  on  the  manner  in  which  he  treats  the  subject 

and  the  importance  he  gives  it.    A  feeble  writer  and 

without  genius  must  have  what  he  thinks  a  great  theme, 

which  we  are  already  interested  in  through  the  accounts 

of  others,  but  a  genius  —  a  Shakespeare,  for  instance  — 

would  make  the  history  of  his  parish  more  interesting 

^jfljan  another's  history  of  the  world. 

j         Wherever  men  have  lived  there  is  a  story  to  be  told, 

\    and  it  depends  chiefly  on  the  story-teller  or  historian 

whether  that  is  interesting  or  not.    You  are  simply  a 

witness  on  the  stand  to  tell  what  you  know  about  your 

I    neighbors  and  neighborhood.    Your  account  of  foreign 

!     parts  which  you  have  never  seen  should  by  good  rights 

be  less  interesting. 

March  22.  A  driving  northeast  snow-storm  yesterday 
and  last  night,  and  to-day  the  drifts  are  high  over  the 
fences  and  the  trains  stopped.  The  Boston  train  due  at 
8.30  A.  M.  did  not  reach  here  till  five  this  afternoon. 
One  side  of  all  the  houses  this  morning  was  one  color,  — 
t.  e.  white  with  the  moist  snow  plastered  over  them,  — 
so  that  you  could  not  tell  whether  they  had  blinds  or  not. 

When  we  consider  how  soon   some  plants  which 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]     THE   GREEDINESS  OF  SPECIES       381 

spread  rapidly,  by  seeds  or  roots,  would  cover  an  area 
equal  to  the  surface  of  the  globe,  how  soon  some  species 
of  trees,  as  the  white  willow,  for  instance,  would  equal 
in  mass  the  earth  itself,  if  all  their  seeds  became  full- 
grown  trees,  how  soon  some  fishes  would  fill  the  ocean 
if  all  their  ova  became  full-grown  fishes,  we  are  tempted 
to  say  that  every  organism,  whether  animal  or  vege- 
table, is  contending  for  the  possession  of  the  planet,  and, 
if  any  one  were  sufficiently  favored,  supposing  it  still 
possible  to  grow,  as  at  first,  it  would  at  length  convert 
the  entire  mass  of  the  globe  into  its  own  substance.* 
Nature  opposes  to  this  many  obstacles,  as  climate, 
myriads  of  brute  and  also  human  foes,  and  of  com- 
petitors which  may  preoccupy  the  ground.  Each  sug- 
gests an  immense  and  wonderful  greediness  and  te- 
nacity of  life  (I  speak  of  the  species,  not  individual), 
as  if  bent  on  taking  entire  possession  of  the  globe 
wherever  the  climate  and  soil  will  permit.  And  each 
prevails  as  much  as  it  does,  because  of  the  ample  pre- 
parations it  has  made  for  the  contest,  —  it  has  secured 
a  myriad  chances,  —  because  it  never  depends  on  spon- 
taneous generation  to  save  it. 

A  writer  in  the  Tribune  speaks  of  cherries  as  one  of 
the  trees  which  come  up  numerously  when  the  forest  is 
cut  or  burned,  though  not  known  there  before.  This 
may  be  true  because  there  was  no  one  knowing  in  these 
matters  in  that  neighborhood.  But  I  assert  that  it  was 
there  before,  nevertheless;  just  as  the  little  oaks  are  in 
the  pine  woods,  but  never  grow  up  to  trees  till  the  pines 
are  cleared  oflF.  Scarcely  any  plant  is  more  sure  to  come 
*  Vide  PKny  on  man*s  mission  to  keep  down  weeds. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


332  JOURNAL  [March  22 

up  in  a  sprout-land  here  than  the  wild  black  cherry,  and 
yet,  though  only  a  few  inches  high  at  the  end  of  the  first 
year  after  the  cutting,  it  is  commonly  several  years  old, 
having  maintained  a  feeble  growth  there  so  long.  There 
is  where  the  birds  have  dropped  the  stones,  and  it  is 
doubtful  if  those  dropped  in  pastures  and  open  land 
are  as  likely  to  genninate.  Yet  the  former  rarely  if 
ever  get  to  be  trees. 

Rice  told  me  a  month  ago  that  when  the  earth  be- 
came bare  the  jays,  though  they  still  came  round  the 
house,  no  longer  picked  up  the  com  he  had  scattered 
for  them.  I  suggested  that  it  was  because  they  were 
now  able  to  vary  their  diet. 

Of  course  natural  successions  are  taking  place  where 
a  swamp  is  gradually  filling  up  with  sphagnum  and 
bushes  and  at  length  trees,  i.  e,y  where  the  soil  is  chan- 
ging. 

Botanists  talk  about  the  possibility  and  impossibility 
of  plants  being  naturalized  here  or  there.  But  what 
plants  have  not  been  naturalized  ?  Of  course  only  those 
which  grow  to-day  exactly  where  the  original  plant  of 
the  species  was  created.  It  is  true  we  do  not  know 
whether  one  or  many  plants  of  a  given  kind  were 
originally  created,  but  I  think  it  is  the  most  reasonable 
and  simple  to  suppose  that  only  one  was,  —  to  sup- 
pose as  little  departure  as  possible  from  the  existing 
order  of  things.  They  commenced  to  spread  them- 
selves at  once  and  by  whatever  means  they  possessed 
as  far  as  they  could,  and  they  are  still  doing  so.  Many 
were  common  to  Europe  and  America  at  the  period 
of  the  discovery  of  the  latter  country,  and  I  have  no 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]       SPONTANEOUS   GENERATION         333 

doubt  that  they  had  naturalized  themselves  in  one  or 
the  other  country.  This  is  more  philosophical  than  to 
suppose  that  they  were  independently  created  in  each. 

I  suppose  that  most  have  seen  —  at  any  rate  I  can 
show  them  — ^  English  cherry  trees,  so  called,  coming 
up  not  uncommonly  in  our  woods  and  under  favor- 
able circumstances  becoming  full-grown  trees.  Now 
I  think  that  they  will  not  pretend  that  they  came  up 
there  in  the  same  manner  before  this  country  was 
discovered  by  the  whites.  But,  if  cherry  trees  come  up 
by  spontaneous  generation,  why  should  they  not  have 
sprung  up  there  in  that  way  a  thousand  years  ago  as 
well  as  now  ? 

K  the  pine  seed  is  spontaneously  generated,  why 
is  it  not  so  produced  in  the  Old  World  as  well  as  in 
America  ?  I  have  no  doubt  that  it  can  be  raised  from 
the  seed  in  corresponding  situations  there,  and  that 
it  will  seem  to  spring  up  just  as  mysteriously  there  as 
it  does  here.  Yet,  if  it  will  grow  so  after  the  seed  has 
been  carried  thither,  why  should  it.  not  before,  if  the 
seed  is  unnecessary  to  its  production  ? 

The  above-mentioned  cherry  trees  come  up,  though 
they  are  comparatively  few,  ji\st  like  the  red  cherry, 
and,  no  doubt,  the  same  persons  would  consider  them 
as  spontaneously  generated.  But  why  did  Nature  defer 
raising  that  species  here  by  spontaneous  generation, 
until  we  had  raised  it  from  the  stones  ? 

It  is  evident  that  Nature's  designs  would  not  be 
accomplished  if  seeds,  having  been  matured,  were 
simply  dropped  and  so  planted  directly  beneath  their 
parent  stems,  as  many  will  always  be  in  any  case.  The 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


334  JOURNAL  [March  2« 

next  consideration  with  her,  then,  after  determining 
to  create  a  seed,  must  have  been  how  to  get  it  trans- 
ported, though  to  never  so  little  distance,  —  the  width 
of  the  plant,  or  less,  will  often  be  sufficient,  —  even  as 
the  eagle  drives  her  young  at  last  from  the  neighbor- 
hood of  her  eyrie,  —  for  their  own  good,  since  there  is 
not  food  enough  there  for  all,  —  without  depending 
on  botanists,  patent  offices,  and  seedsmen.  It  is  not 
enough  to  have  matured  a  seed  which  will  reproduce 
its  kind  under  favorable  conditions,  but  she  must  also 
secure  it  those  favorable  conditions.  Nature  has  left 
nothing  to  the  mercy  of  man.  She  has  taken  care  that 
a  sufficient  number  of  every  kind  of  seeds,  from  a  cocoa- 
nut  to  those  which  are  invisible,  shall  be  transported 
and  planted  in  a  suitable  place. 

A  seed,  which  is  a  plant  or  tree  in  embryo,  which  has 
the  principle  of  growth,  of  life,  in  it,  is  more  important 
in  my  eyes,  and  in  the  economy  of  Nature,  than  the 
diamond  of  Kohinoor. 

When  we  hear  of  an  excellent  fruit  or  a  beautiful 
flower,  the  first  question  is  if  any  man  has  got  the  seeds 
in  his  pocket;  but  men's  pockets  are  only  one  of  the 
means  of  conveyances  which  Nature  has  provided. 

March  30.  High  water,  —  up  to  sixth  slat  (or  gap) 
above  Smith's  second  post.  It  is  said  to  have  been  some 
nine  inches  higher  about  a  month  ago,  when  the  snow 
first  went  oflF. 

R.  W.  E.  lately  found  a  Norway  pine  cut  down  in 
Stow's  wood  by  Saw  Mill  Brook. 

According  to  Qianning's  account,  Walden  must  have 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  BUTTONWOOD  SEED  335 

skimmed  nearly,  if  not  entirely,  over  again  once  since 
the  11th  or  12th,  or  after  it  had  been  some  time  com- 
pletely clear.  It  seems,  then,  that  in  some  years  it  may 
thaw  and  freeze  again. 

April  2.  A  drifting  snow-storm,  perhaps  a  foot  deep 
on  an  average. 

Pratt  thought  the  cowslip  was  out  the  4th. 

April  6.  Am  surprised  to  find  the  river  fallen  some 
nine  inches  notwithstanding  the  melted  snow.  But  I 
read  in  Blodget  that  the  equivalent  in  water  is  about 
one  tenth.  Say  one  ninth  in  this  case,  and  you  have  one 
and  one  third  inches,  and  this  falling  on  an  unfrozen 
surface,  the  river  at  the  same  time  falling  from  a  height, 
shows  why  it  was  no  more  retarded  (far  from  being 
absolutely  raised). 

There  is  now  scarcely  a  button-ball  to  be  seen  on 
Moore's  tree,  where  there  were  many  a  month  ago  or 
more.  The  balls  have  not  fallen  entire,  but  been  de- 
composed and  the  seed  dispersed  gradually,  leaving  long, 
stringy  stems  and  their  cores  dangling  still.  It  is  the 
storms  of  February  and  March  that  disperse  them. 

The  (are  they  cinnamon?)  sparrows  are  the  finest 
singers  I  have  heard  yet,  especially  in  Monroe's  garden, 
where  I  see  no  tree  sparrows.  Similar  but  more  pro- 
longed and  remarkable  and  loud. 

April  7.  Sunday.    Round  the  two-mile  square. 
I  see  where  the  common  great  tufted  sedge  (Carex 
strida)  has  started  under  the  water  on  the  meadows,  now 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


336  JOURNAL  [April  7 

fast  falling.  The  white  maple  at  the  bridge  not  quite 
out.  See  a  water-bug  and  a  frog.  Hylas  are  heard  to-day. 

I  see  where  the  meadow  flood  has  gone  down  in  a 
bay  on  the  southeast  side  of  the  meadow,  whither  the 
foam  had  been  driven.  A  delicate  scum  now  left  an 
inch  high  on  the  grass.  It  is  a  dirty  white,  yet  silvery, 
and  as  thin  as  the  thinnest  foil,  often  unbroken  and 
apparently  air-tight  for  two  or  three  inches  across  and  al- 
most as  light  as  gossamer.  What  is  the  material  ?  It  is 
a  kind  of  paper,  but  far  more  delicate  than  man  makes. 

Saw  in  a  roadside  gutter  at  Simon  Brown's  bam  a 
bird  like  the  solitary  tattler,  with  a  long  bill,  which  at 
length  flew  oflF  to  the  river.  But  it  may  have  been  a 
small  species  of  snipe. 

April  8.  Examine  the  pitch  pines,  which  have  been 
much  gnawed  or  barked  this  snowy  winter.  The  marks 
on  them  show  the  fine  teeth  of  the  mouse,  and  they  are 
also  nicked  as  with  a  sharp  knife.  At  the  base  of  each, 
also,  is  a  quantity  of  the  mice  droppings.  It  is  prob- 
ably the  white-footed  mouse. 

April  9.  Small  reddish  butterflies  common ;  also,  on 
snow  banks,  many  of  the  small  fuzzy  gnats  and  cicindelse 
and  some  large  black  dor-bug-like  beetles.  The  two 
latter  are  easily  detected  from  a  distance  on  the  snow. 

The  phoebe  note  of  chickadee. 

White  frosts  these  mornings. 

Worm-piles  in  grass  at  Clamshell. 

April  10.    Purple  finch. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  HORACE   MANN,  JR.  337 

April  11.  Going  to  law.  I  hear  that  Judge  Minott 
of  Haverhill  once  told  a  client,  by  way  of  warning,  that 
two  millers  who  owned  mills  on  the  same  stream  went 
to  law  about  a  dam,  and  at  the  end  of  the  lawsuit  one 
lawyer  owned  one  mill  and  the  other  the  other. 

April  16.  Horace  Mann  says  that  he  killed  a  bullfrog 
in  Walden  Pond  which  had  swallowed  and  contained  a 
common  striped  snake  which  measured  one  foot  and 
eight  inches  in  length. 

Says  he  saw  two  blue  herons  (?)  go  over  a  fortnight 
ago. 

He  brought  me  some  days  ago  the  contents  of  a  stake- 
driver's  stomach  or  crop.  It  is  apparently  a  perch  (  ?), 
some  seven  inches  long  originally,  with  three  or  four 
pebble-shaped,  compact  masses  of  the  fur  of  some  very 
small  quadruped,  as  a  meadow  mouse,  some  one  fourth 
inch  thick  by  three  fourths  in  diameter,  also  several 
wing-cases  of  black  beetles  such  as  I  see  on  the  meadow 
flood. 

He  brought  me  also  some  time  ago  the  contents  of 
a  black  duck's  crop  (killed  at  Goose  Pond), — green 
gobbets  of  fine  grass  (?)  or  weeds  (  ?  ),  apparently  from 
the  bottom  of  the  pond  (just  then  begun  to  spring  up), 
but  I  have  not  yet  examined  these  out  of  the  bottle. 

April  20.    H.  Mann  brings  me  the  hermit  thrush. 

April  21.  Pratt  collects  very  handsome  tufts  of 
Hepatica  triloba  in  flower  at  Melrose,  and  the  bloodroot 
out  also  there. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


338  JOURNAL  [April  22 

April  22.  It  was  high  water  again  about  a  week  ago, 
—  Mann  thinks  with[in]  three  or  four  inches  as  high  as 
at  end  of  winter. 

He  obtained  to-day  the  buffle-headed  duck,  diving 
in  the  river  near  the  Nine-Acre  Comer  bridge.  I  iden- 
tify it  at  sight  as  my  bird  seen  on  Walden. 

I  hear  a  chip-bird. 

April  23.    Think  I  hear  bay-wings.    Toads  ring. 

April  25.  Horace  Mann  brings  me  apparently  a 
pigeon  hawk.  The  two  middle  tail-feathers  are  not 
tipped  with  white  and  are  pointed  almost  as  a  wood- 
pecker's. 

May  1.  Water  in  our  neighbors'  cellars  quite  gener- 
ally. May  it  not  be  partly  owing  to  the  fact  that  the 
ground  was  not  frozen  the  last  winter  to  any  depth,  and 
so  the  melted  snow  as  well  as  rain  has  been  chiefly 
absorbed  by  it  ?  * 

May  4.  H.  Mann  brings  me  two  small  pewees,  but  not 
yellowish  about  eye  and  bill,  and  bill  is  all  black.  Also 
a  white-throat  sparrow,  Wilson's  thrush,  and  myrtle- 
bird. 

May  5.    Hear  the  seringo  note.' 

*  Probably  it  was. 

'  [Pasted  in  at  this  point  is  a  pencilled  slip  reading,  "Strabo  read 
as  far  as  306th  p.,"  with  memoranda  apparently  referring  to  the 
book.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Hepatica  and  Bloodroot 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  byViOOQlC 


1861]    ON  THE  WAY  TO  MINNESOTA       339 

May  11.    A  boy  brings  me  a  salamander  from  S.  Ma- 
son's.   Sent  it  to  Mann.    What  kind  ? 


Set  out  for  Minnesota  via  Worcester.* 

May  12.    Sunday.    In  Worcester. 

Rode  to  east  side  of  Quinsigamond  Pond  with  Blake 
and  Brown  and  a  dry  humorist,  a  gentleman  who  has 
been  a  sportsman  and  was  well  acquainted  with  dogs. 
He  said  that  he  once  went  by  water  to  St.  John,  N.  B., 
on  a  sporting  excursion,  taking  his  dog  with  him;  but 
the  latter  had  such  a  remarkable  sense  of  decency  that, 
seeing  no  suitable  place  aboard  the  vessel,  he  did  not 
yield  to  the  pressing  demands  of  nature  and,  as  the 
voyage  lasted  several  days,  swelled  up  very  much.  At 
length  his  master,  by  taking  him  aside  and  setting 
him  the  example,  persuaded  him  to  make  water  only. 
When  at  length  he  reached  St.  John,  and  was  leading 
his  dog  by  a  rope  up  a  long  hill  there  which  led  to  the 
town,  he  was  compelled  to  stop  repeatedly  for  his  dog 
to  empty  himself  and  was  the  observed  of  all  observers. 
This  suggested  that  a  dog  could  be  educated  to  be  far 
more  cleanly  in  some  respects  than  men  are. 

He  also  states  that  a  fox  does  not  regard  all  dogs,  — 
or,  rather,  avoid  them,  —  but  only  hunting  dogs.  He 
one  day  heard  the  voices  of  hounds  in  pursuit  of  a  fox 
and  soon  after  saw  the  fox  come  trotting  along  a  path 
in  which  he  himself  was  walking.  Secreting  himself 
behind  a  wall  he  watched  the  motions  of  the  fox,  wish- 
ing to  get  a  shot  at  him,  but  at  that  moment  his  dog, 
a  spaniel,  leapt  out  into  the  path  and  advanced  to  meet 

»  [See  Familiar  Letters,  pp.  380,  383-393;  Riv.  439,  443-455.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


340  JOURNAL  [May  12 

the  fox,  which  stood  still  without  fear  to  receive  him. 
They  smelled  of  one  another  like  dogs,  and  the  sports- 
man was  prevented  from  shooting  the*  fox  for  fear  of 
hitting  his  dog.  So  he  suddenly  showed  himself  in  the 
path,  hoping  thus  to  separate  them  and  get  a  shot. 
The  fox  immediately  cantered  backward  in  the  path, 
but  his  dog  ran  after  him  so  directly  in  a  line  with 
the  fox  that  he  was  afraid  to  fire  for  fear  of  killing  the 
dog. 

May  13.    Worcester  to  Albany. 

The  latter  part  of  the  day  rainy.  The  hills  come  near 
the  railroad  between  Westfield  and  Chester  Village. 
Thereafter  in  Massachusetts  they  may  be  as  high  or 
higher,  but  are  somewhat  further  oflF. 

The  leafing  is  decidedly  more  advanced  in  western 
Massachusetts  than  in  eastern.  Apple  trees  are  greenish. 
Red  elder-berry  is  apparently  just  beginning  to  bloom. 

Put  up  at  the  Delavan  House.  Not  so  good  as  costly. 

May  14.    Albany  to  Suspension  Bridge. 

Albany  to  Schenectady  a  level  pitch  pine  plain  with 
also  white  pine,  white  birch,  and  shad-bush  in  bloom, 
with  hills  at  last.  No  houses;  only  two  or  three  huts 
on  the  edge  of  woods  without  any  road.  These  were 
the  last  pitch  pines  that  I  saw  on  my  westward  journey. 


It  is  amusing  to  observe  how  a  kitten  regards  the 
attic,  kitchen,  or  shed  where  it  was  bred  as  its  castle 
to  resort  to  in  time  of  danger.   It  loves  best  to  sleep  on 


Digitized  by  VnOOQ  IC 


1861]  THE  KITTEN  341 

some  elevated  place,  as  a  shelf  or  chair,  and  for  many 
months  does  not  venture  far  from  the  back  door  where 
it  first  saw  the  light.  Two  rods  is  a  great  range  for  it, 
but  so  far  it  is  tempted,  when  the  dew  is  oflF,  by  the 
motions  of  grasshoppers  and  crickets  and  other  such 
small  game,  sufficiently  novel  and  surprising  to  it.  They 
frequently  have  a  wheezing  cough,  which  some  refer  to 
grasshoppers'  wings  across  their  windpipes.  The  kitten 
has  been  eating  grasshoppers. 

If  some  member  of  the  household  with  whom  they 
are  familiar  —  their  mistress  or  master  —  goes  forth 
into  the  garden,  they  are  then  encouraged  to  take  a 
wider  range,  and  for  a  short  season  explore  the  more 
distant  bean  and  cabbage  rows,  or,  if  several  of  the 
family  go  forth  at  once,  —  as  it  were  a  reconnaissance 
in  force,  —  the  kitten  does  a  transient  scout  duty  outside, 
but  yet  on  the  slightest  alarm  they  are  seen  bounding 
back  with  great  leaps  over  the  grass  toward  the  castle, 
where  they  stand  panting  on  the  door-step,  with  their 
small  lower  jaws  fallen,  until  they  fill  up  with  courage 
again.  A  cat  looks  down  with  complacency  on  the 
strange  dog  from  the  corn-bam  window. 

The  kitten  when  it  is  two  or  three  months  old  is  full 
of  play.  Ever  and  anon  she  takes  up  her  plaything 
in  her  mouth  and  carries  it  to  another  place,  —  a  dis- 
tant comer  of  the  room  or  some  other  nook,  as  under 
a  rocker,  —  or  perchance  drops  it  at  your  feet,  seeming 
to  delight  in  the  mere  carriage  of  it,  as  if  it  were  her 
prey  —  tiger-like.  In  proportion  to  her  animal  spirits 
are  her  quick  motions  and  sudden  whirlings  about  on 
the  carpet  or  in  the  air.   She  may  make  a  great  show  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


342  JOURNAL  [1861 

scratching  and  biting,  but  let  her  have  your  hand  and 
she  will  presently  lick  it  instead. 

They  are  so  naturally  stealthy,  skulking  and  creeping 
about,  affecting  holes  and  darkness,  that  they  will  enter 
a  shed  rather  by  some  hole  under  the  door-sill  than 
go  over  the  sill  through  the  open  door. 

Though  able  to  bear  cold,  few  creatures  love  warmth 
more  or  sooner  find  out  where  the  fire  is.  The  cat, 
whether  she  comes  home  wet  or  dry,  directly  squeezes 
herself  under  the  cooking-stove,  and  stews  her  brain 
there,  if  permitted.  If  the  cat  is  in  the  kitchen,  she  is 
most  likely  to  be  found  under  the  stove. 

This  (October  5)  is  a  rainy  or  drizzling  day  at  last, 
and  the  robins  and  sparrows  are  more  numerous  in 
the  yard  and  about  the  house  than  ever.  They  swarm 
on  the  ground  where  stood  the  heap  of  weeds  which 
was  burned  yesterday,  picking  up  the  seeds  which 
rattled  from  it.  Why  should  these  birds  be  so  much 
more  numerous  about  the  house  such  a  day  as  this? 
I  think  of  no  other  reason  than  because  it  is  darker 
and  fewer  people  are  moving  about  to  frighten  them. 
Our  little  mountain-ash  is  all  aUve  with  them:  A  dozen 
robins  on  it  at  once  busily  reaching  after  and  plucking 
the  berries,  actually  make  the  whole  tree  shake.  There 
are  also  some  little  birds  (I  think  purple  finches)  with 
them.  A  robin  will  swallow  half  a  dozen  berries,  at 
least,  in  rapid  succession  before  it  goes  off,  and  ap- 
parently it  soon  comes  back  for  more. 

The  reason  why  naturalists  make  so  little  account 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


i 

Thoreau's  Grave 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


7^ 


in- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


\ 


1861]     AN  INTERESTING  INVENTION       343 

of  color  is  because  it  is  so  insignificant  to  them;  they 
do  not  understand  it.  But  the  lover  of  flowers  or  animals 
makes  very  much  of  color.  To  a  fancier  of  cats  it  is  not 
indifferent  whether  one  be  black  or  gray,  for  the  color 
expresses  character, 

Prescott  is  not  inclined  to  go  to  the  wars  again 
(October,  '61),  and  so  Concord  has  no  company  to  repre- 
sent her  at  present.  Cyrus  Warren  thinks  that  Derby, 
the  first  lieutenant  (and  butcher  that  was),  would  do 
for  captain  as  well  as  Prescott,  and  adds,  as  his  prin- 
cipal qualification,  "  There  is  n't  one  in  the  company 
can  cut  up  a  crittur  like  him." 

Henry  Mitchell  of  the  Coast  Survey  (page  317)  ^  has 
invented  a  new  kind  of  pile,  to  be  made  of  some  heavy 
and  strong  wood  and  "  so  cut  that  the  lower  portion 
of  it,  for  a  space  of  six  or  eight  feet,  presents  the  ap- 
pearance of  a  number  of  inverted  frustums  of  cones, 
placed  one  above  another."  When  this  is  swayed  to  and 
fro  by  the  waves,  instead  of  being  loosened  and  washed 
out,  it  sinks  deeper  and  deeper.  This,  as  Professor 
Bache  (in  Coast  Survey  Report  for  1859,  page  30) 
says,  *'  is  a  device  borrowed  from  nature,  he  [Mitchell] 
having  observed  that  certain  seed  vessels,  by  virtue  of 
their  forms,  bury  themselves  in  the  earth  when  agitated 
by  wind  or  water."  No  seeds  are  named,  but  they 
must  be  similar  to  the  seed  of  the  porcupine  grass  of  the 
West. 

*  [Report  of  the  Superintendent  of  the  Coast  Survey^  ahomng  the 
Progress  of  the  Survey  during  the  Year  1859,  Washington,  I860.] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


344  JOURNAL  [1861 

Young  Macey,  who  has  been  campmg  on  Monadnock 
this  summer,  telb  me  that  he  found  one  of  my  spruce 
huts  made  last  year  in  August,  and  that  as  many  as 
eighteen,  reshingling  it,  had  camped  in  it  while  he  was 
there- 
See  a  large  hornets'  nest  on  a  maple  (September  29), 
the  half  immersed  leaves  turned  scarlet. 

Four  little  kittens  just  bom ;  lay  like  stuffed  skins  of 
kittens  in  a  heap,  with  pink  feet;  so  flimsy  and  helpless 
they  lie,  yet  blind,  without  any  stiffness  or  ability  to 
stand. 

Edward  Lord  Herbert  says  in  his  autobiography, 
"It  is  well  known  to  those  that  wait  in  my  chamber, 
that  the  shirts,  waistcoats,  and  other  garments  I  wear 
next  my  body,  are  sweet,  beyond  what  either  easily 
can  be  believed,  or  hath  been  observed  in  any  else, 
which  sweetness  also  was  found  to  be  in  my  breath 
above  others,  before  I  used  to  take  tobacco." 

The  kitten  can  already  spit  at  a  fortnight  old,  and 
it  can  mew  from  the  first,  though  it  often  makes  the 
motion  of  mewing  without  uttering  any  sound. 

The  cat  about  to  bring  forth  seeks  out  some  dark  and 
secret  place  for  tlie  purpose,  not  frequented  by  other  cats. 

Tlie  kittens'  ears  are  at  first  nearly  concealed  in  the 
fur,  and  at  a  fortnight  old  they  are  mere  broad-based 
triangles  with  a  side  foremost.  But  the  old  cat  is  ears 
for  them  at  present,  and  comes  running  hastily  to  their 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


1861]  A  YOUNG   KITTEN  345 

aid  when  she  hears  them  mew  and  licks  them  into  con- 
tentment again.  Even  at  three  weeks  the  kitten  can- 
not fairly  walk,  but  only  creeps  feebly  with  outspread 
legs.  But  thenceforth  its  ears  visibly  though  gradually 
lift  and  sharpen  themselves. 

At  three  weeks  old  the  kitten  begins  to  walk  in  a 
staggering  and  creeping  manner  and  even  to  play  a 
little  with  its  mother,  and,  if  you  put  your  ear  close, 
you  may  hear  it  purr.  It  is  remarkable  that  it  will  not 
wander  far  from  the  dark  comer  where  the  cat  has 
left  it,  but  will  instinctively  find  its  way  back  to  it,  prob- 
ably by  the  sense  of  touch,  and  will  rest  nowhere  else. 
Also  it  is  careful  not  to  venture  too  near  the  edge  of  a 
precipice,  and  its  claws  are  eyer  extended  to  save  itself 
in  such  places.  It  washes  itself  somewhat,  and  assumes 
many  of  the  attitudes  of  an  old  cat  at  this  age.  By  the 
disproportionate  size  of  its  feet  and  head  and  legs 
now  it  reminds  you  [of]  a  lion. 

I  saw  it  scratch  its  ear  to-day,  probably  for  the  first 
time;  yet  it  lifted  one  of  its  hind  legs  and  scratched 
its  ear  as  effectually  as  an  old  cat  does.  So  this  is  in- 
stinctive, and  you  may  say  that,  when  a  kitten's  ear 
first  itches,  Providence  comes  to  the  rescue  and  lifts  its 
hind  leg  for  it.  You  would  say  that  this  little  creature 
was  as  perfectly  protected  by  its  instinct  in  its  infancy 
as  an  old  man  can  be  by  his  wisdom.  I  observed  when 
she  first  noticed  the  figures  on  the  carpet,  and  also  put 
up  her  paws  to  touch  or  play  with  surfaces  a  foot  off. 
By  the  same  instinct  that  they  find  the  mother's  teat 
before  they  can  see  they  scratch  their  ears  and  guard 
against  falling. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


346  JOURNAL  [Nov.  3 

After  a  violent  easterly  stonn  in  the  night,  which 
clears  up  at  noon  (November  3, 1861),  I  notice  that  the 
surface  of  the  railroad  causeway,  composed  of  gravel, 
is  singularly  marked,  as  if  stratified  like  some  slate 
rocks,  on  their  edges,  so  that  I  can  tell  within  a  smaU 
fraction  of  a  degree  from  what  quarter  the  rain  came. 
These  lines,  as  it  were  of  stratification,  are  perfectly 
parallel,  and  straight  as  a  ruler,  diagonally  across  the 
flat  surface  of  the  causeway  for  its  whole  length.  Be- 
hind each  little  pebble,  as  a  protecting  boulder,  an 
eighth  or, a  tenth  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  extends  north- 
west a  ridge  of  sand  an  inch  or  more,  which  it  has  pro- 
tected from  being  washed  away,  while  the  heavy  drops 
driven  almost  horizontally  have  washed  out  a  furrow 
on  each  side,  and  on  all  sides  are  these  ridges,  half  an 
inch  apart  and  perfectly  parallel. 

All  this  is  perfectly  distinct  to  an  observant  eye,  and 
yet  could  easily  pass  unnoticed  by  most.  Thus  each 
wind  is  self -registering. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


Digitized  by 


Google         ^ 


INDEX 


"A  stir  is  on  the  Worcester  hills," 
verse.  1,  122. 

Abdallah.  2,  190. 

Abenaki  hinguage,  10,  290.  291. 

Abolition  Society,  5,  365. 
fAbolitionists.  advised  to  assault  the 
L    church  and  press,  2,  178. 

About.  Edmond,  quoted.  10,  234. 

Abu  Beker.  2,  189. 

Academy  grants,  10,  297. 

Academy  of  Natural  Sciences.  Phil- 
adelphia, 7,  74. 

Accident,  nature's  liability  to.  5,  176. 

Account-books,  old,  1,  474, 6«  77-80, 
88,  94-96,  101. 

Acerbi,  7,  290. 

Achilles,  1,  366. 

Acorns,  7,  61, 14,  103,  112,  113,  180; 
edible,  3,  56-59,  10.  103.  104; 
sprouting.  3,  481,  14,  264;  Evelyn 
on,  4,  84,  85;  shapes  of,  6,  477; 
sketch  of  white  oak,  7,  35;  after 
falling,  47;  sketch  of  scarlet  oak 
acorn,  47;  the  acorn  of  art,  62;  as 
food,  460;  as  food  of  squirrels,  10, 
129;  weather  prophets,  178;  beauty 
of.  11,  208,  257. 12,  320;  a  test  of 
soundness  of,  150;  destroyed  by 
worms,  157;  falling  after  rain, 
14,  96;  decaying.  106.  107.  123. 
124.  143.  263;  with  a  double  meat, 
132;  abundance  of  crop  and  large 
number  destroyed,  148;  eating 
white  oak  acorns.  154;  mortality 
of,  168;  infested  by  grubs,  214;  fla- 
vor of  white  oak,  265. 

Acquaintance,  1,  77. 

Actions,  lose  distinction  in  hours  of 
vision,  1 ,  447. 

Acton,  an  historical  monument  in, 
3,  101. 

Actual,  compared  to  ideal,  1,  360. 

Adam,  the  old  and  the  new,  2,  152, 
153. 

Adams,  an  expressman,  10,  216. 

Adams,  of  Waltham,  7,  447. 

Adams.  Frank,  12,  237. 


Adams,  John,  5,  242;  biography  of, 
3,24. 

Adams,  John  Quincy,  of  Carlisle,  14, 
78,  79,  83-86. 

Adams,  Paul,  6,  31. 

Adams,  Rev.  William,  7,  182. 

Adder,  checkered,  6, 308, 309, 14, 168. 
See  aUo  Snake,  chicken. 

Adder,  water,  5,  354, 8,  412, 413,  424, 
446,  10,  416;  carrying  its  young, 
429.  See  aUo  Snake,  water. 

Admetus,  1,  391,  4,  114,6,  185. 

Adversity,  thoughts  induced  by,  1,/ 
320. 

Advice,  futility  of.  3,  294,  295,  11, 
379.  380. 

.£acus,  1,  391,  392. 

iEgina,  1,  392. 

^schylus,  a  seer,  1,  93;  his  genius, 
93,  116;  his  "Prometheus  Bound,** 
94;  intellectual  solitude  of,  117; 
lack  of  discrimination  in,  218. 

iEsop,  I,  470;  fame  of,  5,  411. 

^sop's  Fables,  7,  469. 

Africa,  South,  notes  from  Gordon 
Cumming's  book  on,  2,  130-133. 

African,  the,  survival  of,  1,  446. 

Afterglow,  4,  240-243,  249.  262-264. 

Afternoon,  effect  of,  on  man,  1,  75. 

Agassiz,  Louis,  on  T.  W.  Harris,  4, 
439;  on  refractions  on  Lake  Su- 
perior, 6,  140;  on  turtles,  8,  342, 
10,  399,  420;  on  intestinal  worms 
in  the  mouse,  8,362 ;  on  the  haddock, 
430;  dinner  with,  9,  298,  299;  on 
development  of  the  tortoise,  299; 
showing  a  glow-worm  to,  10,  248; 
in  the  Adirondacks,  11,  119,  120. 

Age,  indispensable  to  youth.  1,  413; 
attitude  toward  nature  in.  3,  378; 
Winckelmann  on  effects  of.  9,  242. 
243. 

Agrimonia  Eupatoria,  4,  194. 

Aground,  a  boat,  2,  78,  79. 

Aikin,  Dr.  John,  Ws  "Arts  of  Life" 
quoted,  7,  460. 

Air,  a  velvet  cushion,  3,  350;  modi- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


350 


INDEX 


fication  of ,  for  plantB,  4,87;  veins 
of,  in  woods,  160;  a  lake  of,  5,  279; 
shimmering  of,  9,  243;  a  foundry 
for  bluebirds'  warbles,  270;  quali- 
ties of,  as  affecting  the  view,  12, 32. 

Aitteon.  Joe,  5,  424  note. 

Albany,  visit  to,  14,  340. 

Albinos,  4,  226. 

Alcott,  A.  Bronson,  3,  81,  418;  a  pic- 
ture of,  1,  432;  as  a  genealogist,  4, 
292-294;  days  with,  5,  130,  131, 
365;  and  institutions,  141;  at 
house  of,  in  Boston.  7,  432;  walk 
with,  8,  332;  visit  to,  at  Walpole, 
N.  H.,  9,  77.  78. 

Alder,  use  of,  for  drains,  4,  85;  roots 
of,  266,  322.  8,  261;  grace  of,  5, 
44;  groves  of.  50;  use  of,  50;  scales 
of,  54,  7,  269;  buds  of,  5,  482;  an- 
tiquity of,  6,  113,  114;  appearance 
of,  in  spring,  289;  varieties  of  leaves, 
8, 401, 402;  charm  of  an  alder  mea- 
dow, 10,  299;  effect  of  fire  on,  481 ; 
French  word  for  grove  of,  502;  in 
winter,  U,  394,  395;  leaves  of,  in 
June,  13,  336.  See  also  Alntu. 

Alder  catkins,  3,  392,  5,  38.  44,  7. 
301,  8,  139,  277,  278,  10,  373,  1«, 
85;  in  December,  4,  419;  anther 
cells  in,  456;  kept  in  water,  5,  5; 
varieties  of,  7,  8;  time  of  blossom- 
ing, 16;  ready  to  bloom,  29;  red, 
474;  promises  in,  10,  242,  243. 

Alder,  black.   See  Prinos. 

Alder,  small  iAlnua  aerrulata),  12, 
134;  tassels  of,  3,  424;  flowers  of, 
12,  126. 

Aletris,  9,  318,  319. 

Aletria  farinoaa,  8,  389,  391. 

Alewives.  2,  234,  347, 8,  397;  used  as 
bait,  7, 479;  William  Wood  on,  136, 
137;  catching,  9,  321. 

Alger,  Rev.  William  R.,  lecture  by, 
12,  13. 

Allegorical  incidents,  5,  203. 

Allen,  William,?,  485;  revisiting  Con- 
cord, 505. 

Allen  ancestry  of  Thoreau,  8,  187. 

Alley,  John  B.,  10,  243. 

Alma  Natura,  1,  59. 

Almanac,  nature's  correspondence  to, 
.         6,  145. 
\  Almshousef«,  Nature  veraua,  2,  420. 

Alnua  incana,  3,  393,  399, 5,  48,  346, 
7,  294;  tassels  of,  3,  424.  See  also 
Alder. 

Alnua  aerrulaia.  See  Alder,  small. 


Alnua  viridia,  11,  28. 

Alaine  Oraenlandica,  U,  16,  17. 

Amaranthus,  leaves  of,  6,  411. 

Amaranthua  hypochondriacua,  4*  351, 
6,413. 

Amazon  River,  13,  418;  basin  of,2» 
147. 

Ambrosia.  See  Wormwood,  Roman. 

Ambrosia,  tall,  lines  on,  2,  50. 

Amelanchier,  swamp,  leafing,  12, 376, 
377. 

Amelanchier  Botryapium,  6,  242,  7y 
366,  9,  374, 13,  281 ;  flowers  of,  6» 
248;  fruit  of.  264. 

Amelanchier  Canadensia,  on  Monad- 
nock.  10,  462. 

Amelanchier  oblongifolia,  6,  262;  leaf- 
ing time  of,  256.  See  alao  Pyrus, 
swamp,  and  Shad-bush. 

America,  how  to  be  destroyed,  2,  70; 
plants  of,  148;  the  she-wolf  of  to- 
day, 151;  fauna  of,  3,  72;  young, 
going  to  seed,  237,  238;  sky  and 
climate  of,  compared  with  those  of 
Europe.  268;  luxury  in.  7,  500; 
dwellers  in,  fortunate,  12,  335. 

American,  the,  compared  with  the 
Englishman,  2,  399. 

American  Association  for  the  Ad- 
vancement of  Science,  the,  5,  4. 

American  Board  of  Commissioners 
fo;*  Foreign  Missions,  the,  12,  407. 

American  mind,  fondness  of,  for  sta- 
tistics, 6,  200. 

American  Philosophical  Society,  7, 75. 

"Americanisms,"  12,  389.  390. 

Amherst  (N.  H.),  lecturing  at.  9, 186. 
187. 

"Among  the  signs  of  autumn  I  per- 
ceive," verse.  2,  59. 

Amphicarpsea,  7,  9;   pods  of,  9,  5. 

Amphion.  1,  392,  393. 

Amusement,  different  from  diversion, 

1,  225. 

Amusements,  pleasure  of  simple,  9, 
104;  the  best,  10, 145-147;  cheap, 
188. 

Anacreon,  translation  of  his  Ode  to 
the  Cicada,  1,  66;   quoted,  5,  13. 

Anacreontics,  1,  69,  70. 

Anatomy,  prevents  insight.  4,  9. 

Ancestors,  methods  of  building  of  our, 

2,  16.  17. 

"And  Menmon's  mother  sprightly 
greets  us  now,"  verse,  1,  376. 

Andromeda,  seen  against  the  sun,  3, 
441,  442;     need   of  sun  for,  478; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


S51 


blooming  of,  4,  0;  in  early  May, 
20.21;  beds  of,  386;  in  November. 
416;  late  leafing  of.  5,  175;  bou- 
quets of,  7,  138;  rarity  of,  139; 
after  the  fall  of  its  red  leaves,  358; 
color  of.  in  winter,  9*  193;  at  An- 
dromeda Ponds.  10,  199-201. 
Andromeda,  dwarf  {A,  calyculata), 
3,  396. 4,  28, 7,  110;  red  of  foliage. 

3,  430.  431;   glow  of.  10,  235.   See 
also  Cassandra. 

Andromeda,  panicled  {A,pantculata), 
10,  197;  puflfs  on,  7,  405.  428,  8, 
350;  berries  of,  9,  161;  as  a  coat- 
of-arms,  10,  198;  wood  of,  278; 
clumps  of.  285.  286. 

Andromeda,  privet,  7,  107. 

Andromeda,  racemed.  jSee  I^eucothoe. 

Andromeda,  water,  driven  to  water  by 
white  man,6«  153;  thicket  of.  10, 
197,  198;  compared  ^ath  ledum, 
274;   leaves  of.  in  winter,  13,  102. 

Andromeda  PoUfolia,  5,  316.  6,  127, 
7,  108,  110,  384,  9,  44,  10,  198; 
upper  and  under  sides  of  leaves  of. 
6, 130;  habits  of.  296.  297;  diseased 
leaves  of,  9,  466;  compared  with 
Kalmia  glauca,  10,  184. 

Andromeda  Ponds,  7, 138;  described, 

10,  199-201. 

Andromeda  puffs,  7,  405,  428,  8,  350, 

9,  180. 
Andropogon  »copariu8,  11,  233,  307. 

12,  392;   in  autumn  dress,  11.  210. 
Andropogons.  11,  125-127.    147.  12, 

395;   withered  tufts  of.  442. 
Anemone,    rue     (TJuUictrum    anemo- 

noides),  5,  235. 6,  256. 
Anemone,  tall,  fruit  of, 9, 126;  cotton 

of,  13,  264. 
Anemone,  white  12,  450. 
Anemone  nemoroea,  4,  40.  6,  253,  8, 

315;    aspect  of,  when  half  closed. 

4,  58:   well  named.  7,  352;   sketch 
of  a  bed  of,  8,  352. 

"Angel  of  the  Resurrection,  The."  7, 

75  and  note. 
Angelica,  2,  227, 256, 5, 296;  gone  to 

seed,  345,  346. 
Angleworms.   See  Fishworms. 
^   Animal  food,  use  of,  4,  417. 

Animal  kingdom,  civilization  of  the, 

11,  450. 

Animal  life,  tragedies  of,  6,  99. 
Animal  spirits,  cultivation  of,  5,  379. 
Animals,  kinship  of,  with  plants,  2, 
416;    inhumanity  to,  6,  310,  311; 


killing  of,  for  science,  452;  the  loss 
of  the  nobler,  8,  220,  221;  "a  bad 
animal,"  379;  compared  with  men, 
9,  178,  179,  225;  man's  relation  to, 
192,  194;  unobtrusiveness  of,  210; 
tracks  of,  unidentified,  306,  307, 
11,  376;  their  manner  of  obser- 
vation, 297;  T.'s  sympathy  with 
wild,  450;  nomenclature  of.  13,  55; 
"History  of  Four-footed  Beasts" 
quoted  on,  149-152;  requisites  in 
description  of.  154-156.  167,  168; 
benefactors  of  man,  14,  200. 

Anniversary  Week,  in  Boston,  13, 324. 

"Annual  of  Scientific  Discovery," 
quoted,  2,  348,  349;  dryness  of, 
373. 

Annursnack  Hill,  an  outlook  from,  1, 
83;  at  its  best,  2,  467;  across  a 
lake  of  fog,  486. 

Anomia  ephipinum,  7,  470. 

"Anon  with  gaping  fearlessness  they 
quaff,"  verse,  1,  60. 

Antseus,  1,  393. 

Antelopes.  2, 131, 132.13, 149. 150. 

Antennaria  margaritacea.  See  Ever- 
lasting, pearly. 

Ant-hills,  5,  59. 8, 251 , 9, 381 ,  395, 11, 
157. 12,  454. 

Antinoijs,  6,  56. 

Antiquarian  Library,  at  Worcester,  7, 
99. 

Antiquity,  its  relation  to  the  future, 
1,  295,  296;  purity  of,  304;  com- 
mon sense  of,  345;  spirit  of,  in 
present.  376.  377;  living  again  in 
Concord,  425;  in  local  and  world 
history.  13,  16. 

Ants.  12,  83.  181;  in  winter  quarters. 
3,  92,  10,  148;  under  a  stone,  3, 
128;  battle  of  the.  209-212;  mov- 
ing their  young.  214;  cavities  made 
by,  302;  M  work  in  spring,  463; 
winged,  7,  8;  house-cleaning,  304; 
winged,  prey  of  birds.  398;  a  pro- 
cession of  black,  454;  black,  in 
winter  quarters.  8,  11,  12;  red 
and  black.  251;  in  sphagnum  bed. 
9,41;  spicy-scented,  347,371,372; 
black,  paying  homage  to  their 
queen,  10,  219,  220;  on  the  ice,  12, 
41.  42;  awakening  in  spring,  69; 
on  Mt.  Monadnock,  14, 35.  See  also 
Ant-hills. 

"Any  fool  can  make  a  rule,"  13, 125. 

Ape.  Topsell's  description  of,  13, 151, 
152. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


852 


INDEX 


Apennines,  the  word,  3,  229. 

Aphides,  5,  249;  floating  on  the  As- 
sabet,  309;  the  father  of  all  the,  9, 
8,9. 

Aphorisms,  1,  342.  358,  438.  4,  349. 

Apocynum  cannalnnum,  or  Indian 
hemp.  8,447.458,  466,9,476,  11,3. 

Apollo,  i,  393,  394,  4,  114. 

Apollo  Belvidere,  6,  56. 

Appearances,  4,  45. 

Appetite,  1,  311,  312. 

Apple-of-Peru,  7,  483. 

Apple  blossoms,  2,  30;  fragrance  of, 
5,  169. 

Apple  trees,  wild,  2,  92,  100,  106; 
bush  compared  to  an  hour-glass, 
331;  cows  the  foes  of,  3,  75;  or- 
chards, 4, 181 ;  scrubs,  5, 179, 180; 
the  "tea-tree,"  338;  best  shape  of 
a  tree,  6,  441 ;  twigs  eaten  by  par- 
tridges, 7, 188 ;  a  tree  carried  on  the 
shoulders,  8,  312;  roots  of,  9,  350, 
361;  a  grafter  of,  383,  384;  de- 
creasing in  size,  10,  12;  reflections 
on  an  apple  tree,  136;  independ- 
ence of.  137,  138;  measured.  422, 
428;  low  scrub,  11,  76;  hour-glass, 
269. 

Apples,  fragrance  of  a  sopsivine,  1, 
372, 4, 271 ;  an  apple  picked  up  in 
the  road,  2,  383;  the  noblest  of 
fruits,  3,  83,  84;  early-harvest,  5, 
328;  scent  of.  373;  frozen,  494; 
food  of  squirrels.  7,  501 ;  harvest  of, 
11,  291-293;  varieties  at  cattle- 
show,  12,  356;  compared  with 
pears,  14,  113,  114. 

Apples,  wild.  2,  126,  127,  4,  359;  the 
native,  2, 21 1 ;  names  proposed  for, 
212,  222,  223;  fragrance  of,  396; 
colors  of,  7,  608;  eaten  in  the  open 
air,  520.  626;  spots  on.  8,  6;  and 
the  savage,  7. 

Aquarium,  Edward  Emerson's,  12, 
151. 

Arabian  Nights,  1,  344. 

Arabic,  names  of  plants  from,  3,  216. 

Arabis,  7,  319. 

Arabia  Canadenaia,  pkkIs  of,  6,  410. 

Arabs,  prayers  of,  9,  252. 

Aralia,  spotted  leaves  of,  9,  9.  See 
alao  Sarsaparilla. 

Aralia,  bristly,  berries  of,  6,  349. 

Arbor-vitffi,  2,  37,200,13,  335;  odor 
of,6,  209,  221. 

Arbutua  Uva-Urai.   See  Bear-berry. 

Arch,  compared  to  stars,  4,  152. 


Archangelica,  9,  60,  12,  402,  403. 

Archangelica  atropurpurea,  4,  138. 

Architecture,  in  Canada,  2, 75,  76;  H. 
Greenough's  letter  on,  3,  181-183; 
its  inferiority  to  thought,  4,  162; 
American  taste  for,  163;  of  youth 
and  middle  age,  227;  terrene  tem- 
ples. 5,  140;  Gothic,  493;  Numid- 
ian,  493;  significance  of  the  tent 
in,  7,  461 ;   of  toadstools,  8,  464. 

Arctic  regions,  dreariness  of,  7,  69. 

Arctoataphyloa  alpina,  11,  42,  43. 

Arctoataphyha  UvonUrai,  See  Bear- 
berry. 

Ardea  minor.   See  Bittern,  American. 

Arenaria  Grcmlandica,  on  Mt.  Mo- 
nadnock,  14,  45. 

Arethusa,  adder's-tongue.  See  Po- 
gonia  ophiogloaaoidea. 

Arethuaa  bulboaa,  4,  76,  200,  5,  196; 
demands  a  poet,  4,  81;  a  superb 
flower,  6,  316,  317;  fragrance  of, 
341. 

Aristeus,  1,  394. 

Aristophanes,  13,  195. 

Aristotelean  method,  12,  372. 

Aristotle,  1, 150, 171,9,  290;  his  defi- 
nition of  art,  1,  139;  described  by 
Degerando,  440;  quoted,  2,  160; 
his  "History  of  Animals,"  13,  66; 
on  spawning  of  fishes,  77,  78. 

Arrowhead,  or  sagittaria,  root  of,  2, 
389;  croppedbyoows,4, 208;  leaves 
of,  228,  264, 11,  102.  103, 12,  294; 
flowers  of.  4,  264. 5,  283, 12,  300. 

Arrowhead-maker,  1,  453. 

Arrowheads.   See  Indian  arrowheads. 

Arrow-wood,  4,  203.  See  alao  Vibur- 
num dentatum. 

Art,  highest  condition  of,  1«  163;  the 
true.  167;  niggardliness  of,  com- 
pared with  Nature,  270. 271 ;  Gre- 
cian. 361,  362;  limitation  of,  367; 
kinship  of,  to  Nature,  380;  for  art's 
sake,  3,  30;  beginnings  of,  5,  526; 
a  gall,  7, 10;  defined,  10, 80;  a  cer- 
tain wildness  in.  compared  with 
Nature's,  11,  460;  the  product  of 
leisure.  12,  344. 

Arthur,  King,  1,  23. 

Artichokes.  12,  410. 

Artificial  wants,  encouragement  of, 
6,  335,  336. 

Artist,  the,  indiflFerence  of,  1,  349. 

Arts,  lessons  taught  by  the,  2,  142. 

Arum  peltandrum,  11,  127. 

Arum  triphyllum,  5,  151, 8,  415;  ber- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


353 


I 


Ties  of.  4, 342. 9,  51. 60. 92, 12, 310; 
its  beauty  of  form,  185. 

Arundo.  5,  382. 

Arvicola  Emmonaii.    See  Mouse,  deer. 

Ascension  Island.  2,  264.  12,  33. 

Asclepias,  a  substitute  for  hemp,  4, 
491.   See  also  Milkweed. 

Asclepias.  four-leaved  (A.  guadrifo- 
Zia),4,  138.6,289. 

A8clepias  Comuti.  See  Milkweed, 
common. 

Aaclevicia  incamata.  See  Milkweed, 
water. 

Aaclepiae  obtuaifolia,  4,  205.  208,  8, 
404;  pods  of.  9,  88. 

Asclepias  pulchra,  2,  424. 

Asclepias  Syriaca.  See  Milkweed, 
common. 

Ash,  6,  176;  harmony  of  form  of,  10, 
43 ;  fallen  leaves  of,  120;  leaves  of, 
in  June,  13,  336. 

Ash,  black.  2,  197.  12,  108;  impro- 
perly named.  2,  206. 

Ash.  mountain.  See  Mountain-ash. 

Ash,  white,  3,  36,  12,  108;  keys  of, 
4,  138;  destroyed  by  lightning, 
155,  156;  anthers  of,  9,  377;  an 
ancient  scar  on,  10,  12. 

Ashburnham,  2,  74. 

Ashly,  Joe,  7,  467*. 

Asmund,  3,  203. 

Asparagus,  10,  510. 

Aspen,  11,  268,  269,  342,  13,  305; 
showing  spring's  influence,  3,  362; 
like  green  fires,  4,  37;  twigs  kept 
in  water,  5,  5;  leaves  of.  122,  138; 
leafing  of,  6,  275,7, 351, 352;  leaves 
of  sprout,  9,  113;  fruit  of,  10,  420; 
leaves  of,  in  June,  13,  336.  See  also 
Poplat  ond  Populus. 

Aspen  catkins,  3,  419,  7,  320,  8, 277. 

Aspidium  cristatum,  12,  386. 

Aspidium  Filix-fcemina,  9,  483. 

Aspiration,  should  exceed  attainment, 
1,  352;    fulfillment  of,  10,  202. 

Asplenium,  9,  483;  likened  to  a 
breastpin,  11,  333,  334. 

"Assabet,  The,"  verse,  1,  84. 

Assabet  River,  or  North  River,  or 
North  Branch,  4, 154,6,292;  bath- 
ing-place in,  4, 100;  heaps  of  stones 
in,  152,  221.  222.  6,  125;  meadow 
on,  4,  186,  187;  character  of,  188; 
bottom  of,  211-214;  walks  in,  211- 
214,  220-223;  expansiveness  of, 
310,  311;  a  beautiful  scene  on,  6, 
284;    peculiarities   of,  6,  411;    rise 


and  fall  by  fits  and  starts,  10,  339, 
340;  physiography  of,  12,  238-^248, 
279-283;  observing  the  Sabbath, 
247;  old  dam  in,  14,  99. 

Assabet  stone  bridge,  9,  375, 12,  246. 

Assawampsett  Pond,  7,  473-479,  8, 
396,  397. 

Associations,  weight  of  in  art-appre- 
ciations, 6,  55-59. 

Aster  acuminatus,  4,  347. 

Aster  cordijolius,  9,  63. 

Aster  corymbosus,  6,  424. 

Aster  loBvis,  10,  35. 

Aster,  savory-leaved  {A.  linariifoUus 
or  Diplopappus  linariifoUus),  4» 
266,  267,  7,  434, 11,  205.  293. 

Aster  longifolitts,  4,  322,  6,  476. 

Aster  macrophyUus,  9,  25;  fragrance 
of,  11,  73. 

Aster  miser,  6,  418,  9,  6. 

Aster  multiflorus,  6,  409. 

Aster  patens,  6,  365,  8,  464. 

Aster  puniceus,  6,  423,  462,  476,  9, 
35. 

Aster  Tradescanti,  6,  421,  422, 9,  82. 

Aster  undulatus,  6,  366,  423,  9,  87; 
the  latest  aster,  6,  449;  compared 
with  other  species,  476;  beauty  of, 
12   363 

Asters,  6,  387,  412-415,  6,  434,  463, 
8,  459;  unidentified,  6,  319,  406, 
423, 6,  447.  462,  7,  7.  18;  spots  on 
an  aster,  6,  397;  list  of,  in  order 
of  blooming,  397;  fruit  of  the  stars, 
403,404;  unjustly  despised,  408;  an 
arrangement  according  to  beauty, 
413,  414;  endurance  of  different 
species  of,  473;  ice-inclosed,  8,  61, 
62 ;  commonest  species  Aug.  21,  9, 
12;  lists  of,  in  September,  51,  52, 
89,  90;  list  of  late  September,  106; 
observed  near  Gloucester,  11,  175, 
176. 

Astor  Library,  New  York,  8,458  note. 

Astrology,  compared  with  astronomy, 
4,  470,  471. 

Astronomer,  mental  blindness  of  the, 
2,  373. 

Astronomy,  course  of  the  sun,  1,  164; 
use  of  naked  eye  in,  2,  294;  com- 
pared with  astrology,  4,  470,  471; 
a  fashionable  study,  12,  391. 

Astyanax,  12,  64. 

"At  midnight's  hour  I  raised  my 
head,"  verse,  1,  407. 

Atean,  Joe,  6,  424  and  note,  425  note, 
426. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


S54 


INDEX 


^  Atheism,  2,  468. 

Atkins's  boathouse,  4,  422. 

Atkinson,  Thomas  Witlam,   quoted, 
7,480. 
\  Atlantis,  6,  74. 

Atmosphere,  inflammable,  1,  451. 

A  triplex  pcUula,  8,  387. 

Attacua  cecropia.  See  Moth,  cecropia. 

Attacus  luna.  See  Moth,  luna. 

Attacua  Promeihea.  5ec  Moth,  Prome- 
thea. 

Attic,  view  from  an,  1,  80;  a  night  in 
a  Provincetown,  9,  452,  453. 

Attraction,  capillary,  3,  265. 

Atwood,  Mr.,  "Master  Mariner,"  9« 
454. 

Aubrey,  John,  quoted,  1,  238. 

Audience,  T.'s  estimate  of  an,  9,  187, 
188;  a  timid,  237,  238;  relations 
of  lecturer  and,  12,  9-11. 

Audubon.  John  James,  8,  387;  his 
**  Birds  of  America,"  4,  68;  quoted, 
5,  3.  8,  388, 11,  397,  398,  13,  421, 
14, 294. 

Audubon  and  Bachman,  their  "  Quad- 
rupeds of  Nori^h  America,"  quoted, 
4,  484.  7,  202,  219.  239-241,  244, 
266.  267, 10,  437, 14,  81,  231. 

August,  skies  of.  4,  272;  royalty  of, 
300;  color  of,  11,  131. 

Auk,  little.  13,  419.  420, 14,  253. 

Aunt,  11,  455;   barberrying.  7,  460. 

Aunt  Louisa.  See  Dunbar,  Louisa. 

Aunt  Maria.   See  Thoreau,  Maria. 

Aurora.  4,  204, 10,  364. 

Aurora,  of  Guido,  the,  1,  167. 

Aurora  borealis.  J8,  479.  3,  313,  457, 
10,  266;   discovery  of,  4,  486. 

Austin,  of  Concord  and  Lincoln,  dis- 
appointed in  rural  life,  13, 168. 

Australian  gold-diggings,  7,  491. 

Author ,  character  of,  revealed  in  books, 
1,  226;  advised  to  print.  3,  420; 
suggested  disposition  of  manu- 
scripts, 7,  455.    See  also  Writing, 

Authors,  two  classes  of,  1,  251. 

Autographs,  4,  439,  440. 

Autunm,  imitates  spring,  2,  99;  best 
remembered  in  spring,  4,  44;  yel- 
lows of,  108;  presages  of.  in  sum- 
mer. 282;  welcome  advent  of,  318; 
livery  of,  350;  flashing  air  of,  354; 
superfluity  of  light  in,  383;  land- 
scape of.  compared  to  russet  apple. 
419;  anticipation  of,  6,  425-427; 
two  autumnal  seasons  yearly,  7, 
39;  stages  of,  on  the  river,  54;  cause 


of  brilliant  colors  in,  56;  coming  of, 

11,  163,  164;    in  literature.  254, 
255. 

Autumn  foliage,  7,  55,  56;  not  with- 
ered leaves,  2,  75;  falsely  described 
as  decaying.  5,  356;  su^estion  for 
a  book  on.  516;  cause  of  brilliancy 
in,  7,  56. 9,  67;  eflfect  of  moisture 
on  color  of,  11,  105;  flame  of, 
contrasted  with  real  flame.  249; 
in  late  October,  258,  259;  season 
closed,  306;  compensating  for  ab- 
sence of  wild  animals,  12,  365  366. 
See  also  Leaves. 

Avens,  water,  4,  82. 

Avens,  white,  5,  352. 

Awe,  the  cause  of  the  potato-rot,  9, 
377. 

Axe.  broken  in  chopping,  7,  172;  re- 
pairing an,  8,  46. 

Ayer,  Fred.,  2,  7. 

Ayer,  Capt.  Samuel,  3,  284.  285. 

Azalea,  pink  or  purple,  or  pinxter- 
flower  (A.  nvdiflora),  5,  203,  219, 
220,  7,  404;  hunting  for  and  find- 
ing, 5,  204-207;  a  description  of, 
208. 

Azara,  Don  Felix  de,  quoted,  2,  402. 

Babe,  the,  takes  its  departure  from 
Nature,  1,  232.   See  aUo  Infant. 

Bacchus.  1,  394. 

Bache,  Prof.  A.  D.,  14,  343. 

Backus's  Account  of  Middleborough, 
7,  472.  478. 

Bacon,  a  leg  of.  9,  142. 

Bacon,  Austin,  in  Natick  with,  10, 
10-13;   tells  of  a  bad  swamp,  198. 

Bacon,  Francis,  quoted,  1,  117. 

Bacon,  Oliver  N.,  his  History  of  Na- 
tick quoted,  8,  118. 

Bceomycee  roeeua,  3, 442,6, 160,7, 125, 

12,  109.  110. 
Baffin's  Bay,  6,  140. 

Baird,  Spencer  FuUerton,  quoted.  5, 

406. 
Baker.  Amos.  3,  87.  9,  131. 
Baker,  Isaiah,  9,  429,  430. 
Baker.  Jacob.  3,  67. 
Baker,  James.  3,  4,  7,  299. 
Baker  Farm,  3,  190. 
Baker's  Orchard,  2,  300. 
Bald  Mountain,  2,  187. 
"Ball,  the  Great,"  1,  161. 
Ball,     Dr.,    adventures     in    White 

Mountains,  9,  259. 
Ball's  Hill,  1,  90. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


$55 


Balm-of-Gileiid.3,436.470.471:  bal- 
sam of,  471;  buds  of.  6,  117;  leaf- 
ing of,  6,  259. 

Balsam  fir.   See  Fir,  balsam. 

Bancroft,  George,  his  History  of  the 
United  States,  9,  76. 

Banda  Oriental,  2,  242. 

Bangor  (Me.) ,  5, 435, 6, 4, 5;  visits  to, 
1,  48,  49,  5,  427-433.  9,  4^.  486. 
600-603. 

Bank,  a  beautiful,  12,  40.  41. 

Bank  wall,  refusal  of  T.  to  build,  4, 
262.  263. 

Bankruptcy,  the  secret  of,  10,  165. 

Banks,  the  safest  for  investments,  10, 
92,  93. 

Banks,  Sir  Joseph,  9,  251.  262,  12, 
377,  378. 

Barber,  a,  out  sailing,  5,  360. 

Barber,  John  Warner,  his  "  Historical 
Ck>llection8."  8,  163. 

Barberelli,  Giorgio,  3,  464,  466. 

Barberries,  time  for  gathering,  7,  69; 
picking,  460.  461;  food  of  crows, 
8, 132, 133;  gathering  of,  9,  86,  86; 
food  of  robins,  10,  110,  111. 

Barberry,  2,  320;  blossom  of,  4,  79; 
weight  of  fruit  of,  366;  passage  of 
thorns  of,  into  leaves,  475,  476; 
a  beautiful  bush,  5,  191;  roots  of, 
606;  wood  of,  9,  206;  scent  of 
flowers,  388;  spread  of,  10,  448; 
beginnings  of  bushes,  610;  forma- 
,tion  of  clumps  of,  11,  76;  manner 
of  growth  Of,  112;   a  large,  12,  18. 

Bark,  wood  exposed  under,  5,  327; 
sale  of,  6,  88. 

Bam,  collapse  of,  on  Gonantum,  6, 
171. 

Barnacles,  2,  347. 

Barnes,  Abigail,  8,  187. 

Bamett,  Miss  Emeline,  10,  215. 

Barney,  Mr.,  at  Nantucket,  7,  92. 

Barnum's  Museum,  New  York,  7,  76, 
9,  133, 10,  443. 

Barometer,  camphor  used  for,  9,  34. 

Barrett,  Mr.,  a  stutterer,  10,  207. 

Barrett.  Nathan,  10,  172,  173,  11, 
454, 12,  242. 

Barrett,  Prescott,  a  meeting  with,  10, 
68,59. 

Barrett,  Sam,  8,  230,  11,  226;  his 
sawmill,  4,  23. 10^  43,  11, 224;  his 
ice,  6,  81;  his  mill-pond,  7,  15;  at 
his  sawmill,  8,  348;  talks  of  chest- 
nut trees,  10,  417. 

Barry,  sawing  down  a  pine,  3,  197. 


Bartlett,  Dr..  on  sale  of  Hunt  farm,  4* 
487. 

Bartlett,  Edward,  11,  64,  68,  86,  139; 
a  call  from,  10,  497,  498;  finds 
bobolinks'  nests,  499;  collecting 
birds'  eggs,  503,  504. 

Bartlett,  Joseph,  a  captive  of  the  In- 
dians, 3,  284. 

Bartonia  teneUa,  4,  292. 

Bartram,  William,  quoted,  2,  376. 

Baseball,  8,  270. 

Basil,  wild.   See  Pycnanthemum. 

Bass  (fish),  7,  136. 

Bass,  or  basswood,  2,  478;  leaves  of, 
4,  96,  5,  151;  in  blossom,  4,  217, 
229;  leafing,  of,  6,  262;  attraction 
of,  for  bees,  400,  404,  406;  buds 
of,  7,  84;  a  large,  12,  108. 

Bass,  striped.  2,  363. 

Bass-fishing,  7,  441. 

Bat,  hoary,  14,  63. 

Bat,  New  York,  13,  342,  343. 

Bathing,  refreshment  in,  2,  277;  in 
rivers,  336;  by  moonlight.  383; 
efifect  of,  on  mind  and  body,  436; 
medicated  bath  furnished  by  Na- 
ture, 437;  a  necessity,  4,  201,  202; 
luxury  of,  207:  for  the  last  time  in 
autumn,  7,  58. 

Bats,  catching  insects,  2,  388;  time  of 
coming  out,  7,  58. 

Batteaux,  measurements  of,  5,  426; 
manufactory  of,  431. 

Bay,  Lidy,  an  Indian  woman,  14, 273. 

Bayberries,  making  tallow  from,  9$ 
320,  321. 

Bayberrj',  7,  9,  399. 

Bay-wing,  or  grass-bird,  or  grass 
finch,  5, 109, 6, 42.  214. 7,  306.  317. 
371,  490;  song  of,  6,  396,  7,  371. 
8,  279.  287,  385,  9,  363.  10,  343. 
344,  420,  12,  143,  144;  pluming 
itself,  7,  337;  eggs  of,  381;  nest  of , 
445. 9,  404;  philosophy  of.  363. 

Beach,  walk  on  the  sea-beach,  9,  443; 
the  Singing  Beach  at  Manchester. 
11,  173, 174;  going  to  the,  12, 233- 
235. 

Beach-flea,  9,  443. 

Beans,  hoeing,  1,  367. 

Bear  Garden  Hill,  music  heard  from, 
2,  373. 

Bear,  black,  WilUam  Wood  on,  7, 
134;  in  White  Mountains,  11,  14. 
44;  noise  made  by,  28;  food  of,  42; 
foot  of.  13,  304,  306. 

Bear,  grizzly,  2, 271 ;  a  captive,  4, 491. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


856 


INDEX 


Bear,  white,  4,  82. 

Bear-berry  {Arctoetaphyloa  Uva-Urai 
or  Arbutu9  Uva-Urai),  3,  396,  4, 
64, 11,  42,  43. 

Beards,  6,  97;  12,  30. 

Beatton,  John,  9,  133,  206;  reminis- 
cences of,  10,  54;  tomb  of,  59; 
honesty  of,  113. 

Beauport  (Quebec),  2,  76. 

Beauty,  not  far  removed  from  ugli- 
ness, 1,  119;  composition  of,  145; 
proportions  of,  181;  courage  of  vo- 
taries of,  308,  309;  a  utility,  449; 
perception  of,  a  moral  test,  4,  126; 
pure  forms  of,  compared  to  the  pic- 
turesque, 6,  55-59;  appreciation  of , 
disconnected  from  virtue,  58,  59; 
ornamental.  137;  enjoyment  of,  8, 
242;  Winckelmann  quoted  on,  9, 
288;  not  to  be  far  sought,  11,  166; 
the  garment  of  virtue,  12,  367, 
368. 

Beaver,  Montanus  on,  6,  136;  Wil- 
liam Wood  on,  7,  135;  a  victim  to 
the  fur  trade.  12,  121;  described 
by  Topsell,  13,  152,  153. 

Beaver-Hole  Meadows,  12,  269. 

Beck,  T.  R.,  quoted,  8,  466. 9,  68. 

Beck  Stow's  Swamp,  4,  231. 

Bed,  Josh  Piper's,  9,  239;  going  to, 
10,  176. 

Bedford,  1,  91;  the  foreign  land  of, 
2,6;  inhabitants  of,  3, 3;  bell  of,  4, 
473. 

Bedford  (N.  H.),  1,  91. 

Bee,  mining.  13,  287,  288. 

Bee,  tailor,  9,  61. 

Beech,  beauties  of,  3, 94;  verdure  of, 
5,  173;  fallen  leaves  of,  473,  474; 
leaf-buds  of,  7,  356;  young,  in 
autumn,  11,  250;    wood  of,  250. 

Beecher,  Henry  Ward,  11,  438. 

Bee-hunt,  a.  4,  368-373. 

Bees,  clover  and,  2,  272;  importance 
of  witch-hazel  to,  3,  60;  working 
bees  and  maiden  aunts.  71;  a 
swarm  of  dead,  293,  294;  bee- 
hunting,  296-299,  4,  368-373;  the 
squire's  bee-chasing,  3,  354,  355; 
on  staminate  flowers,  463;  at  work 
in  spring.  465.  466;  hum  of,  at  sun- 
rise, 4,  257;  flight  of,  after  feeding, 
371-373;  voyages  of.  374;  inci- 
dent of  molasses,  404;  finding  the 
wax,  5,  34;  in  the  earliest  flowers, 
72;  found  with  willow  catkins,  81; 
in  the  skunk-cabbage,  96;   carriers 


of  pollen,  105;  swarming,  209;  a 
bee  eating  a  flower,  361;  attracted 
by  the  bass  tree.  6,  400,  404,  405; 
in  the  early  flowers,  7,  318;  going 
in  and  out  of  a  hole,  332;  killing 
drones,  9,  311;  nest  of,  469,  470; 
hum  of,  10,  346, 393;  fond  of  ledum, 
11,  17;  in  high  altitudes,  47,  48, 
49  note;  the  first  humming  of,  in 
the  spring,  12,  147, 148;  droppings 
of,  13,  202;  sucking  honey  from 
the  flowers,  278.  See  also  Honey- 
bee. 

Beetle,  for  woodchopping,  9,  294. 

Beetles,  5, 33.6.  151, 7, 292,  8, 302.9, 
348,12,311.312. 

Beggar-ticks,  3, 65,  5,  448;  as  a  sym- 
bol, 12,  341. 

".  Behold,  how,  spring  appearing," 
verse,  1,  69. 

Belcher-squelchers,  4,  124. 

Belief,  9,  217. 

Belknap,  Jeremy,  his  History  of  New 
Hampshire  quoted,  11,  5,  58,  59. 

Bell,  Thomas,  quoted,  10,  437,  486, 
487. 

Bellew,  F.  A.  T.,  7,  500. 

Bellflower,  clasping,  4,  143. 

Bellows,  made  from  onion  stems,  4, 
303. 

Bellows  FaUs  (Vt.),9,  74-76. 

Bellows  family,  9,  77. 

Bells,  the  Sabbath  bell,  1,  54.  55;  a 
bright  thought,  484;  a  bell  heard 
on  the  horizon,  2,  381;  a  factory 
bell,  485;  vibratory  hum  of  a  bell, 
3, 68;  the  bell  for  evening  meeting, 
99;  religion  of.  4, 443;  melody  of.  5, 
23;  sound  of,  7,  307. 

Bellwort.  sessile-leaved.  7,  18;  a 
beautiful  sight,  4,  56. 

Benignity,  slimy,  5,  264,  265. 

Benjamin,  William  O.,  6,  71. 

Bennet,  Nehemiah.  quoted,  7,  474, 
475.  484. 

Bent,  on  cattle  and  salt.  14,  9. 

Benzo,  his  History  of  the  West  In- 
dies, 5,  27. 

Bermudas,  the,  5,  21. 

Berries,  importance  of,  to  children, 
2,  308;  conditions  of  ripening  of. 
4.  224;  gem-like  aspect  of,  312; 
persistent  in  winter,  432;  neglected 
fruit,  5,  417;  abundance  of,  6,  403; 
varieties  of,  412;  a  profusion  of, 
8,  444,  445;  list  of,  the  food  of 
birds  and  mice,  13,  158;    of  Bit. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


357 


Monadnock,  14, 32;  property  rights 
in,  66,  57. 

Berry,  origin  of  word,  14,  298. 

Berrying,  things  implied  in,  14,  56. 
See  aUo  Huckleberrying. 

Bethlehem-star,  yellow,  4,  110. 

"Better  wait,"  verse,  1,  287. 

Beverly^  Robert,  his  History  of  Vir- 
ginia quoted,  2,  220, 9,  274. 

Bewick,  Thomas,?,  90,  122,  126,  469; 
quoted,  224. 

Bhagavat  Geeta,  its  superiority   to 
architecture,  4,  152,  153. 
^    Bias,  1,  169,  170. 
V  Bible,  the,  miracles  of,  2,  33;    influ- 
ence of,  179;  a  defect  in,  12,  389. 

Bidens,  12,  320;  the  rose  of  fall,  4, 
350;  seeds  of,  5,  448.  449. 

Bidens,  great,  5,  395.  7,  40. 

Bidena  Beckii,  5,  344,  7,  5. 

Btdeng  cemua,  4,  334,  7,  26,  9,  84. 

Bidens  chryaarUhsmoidea,  4,  330,  7, 
26,  27;  a  sunny  disk.  12,  323. 

Bigelow.  blacksmith,  8.  46. 

Bigelow,  tavern-keeper,  10,  174. 

Bigelow,  Erastus,  2,  136. 

Bigelow,  Jacob,  quoted,  2,  219-221, 
228,  273.  414,  3,  130,  6,  219,  276, 
8,  337,  406.  432,  10,  9,  14,  15,  11, 
281 ,  12, 208;  his  "Medical  Botany," 

2,  261;  his  "Plants  of  Boston  and 
Vicinity,"  T.'s  first  botany,  9,  156. 

Bilberry.   See  Blueberry,  high. 

Billerica,  1,  90;  view  of  hills  from,  4, 
422. 

Billerica  dam  controversy,  12,  211- 
213. 

Billings,  of  Concord.  8,  69, 11,  436. 

Billingsgate  Light,  7,  442. 

Billington  Sea.  2,  363. 

Bindweed.  2,  274. 
N^  Biography,  should  be  autobiography, 
1,  270;    the  writing  of,  8,  64. 

Birch,  killed  by  flood,  2,  87;  the  sur- 
veyor's tree,  267;  a  row  of  birches, 

3,  35;  withes  of,  80;  leaves  of,  4, 
39;  leafing  of.  62,6,  275,  276;  scales 
of,  4, 431 . 8, 95;  samarse  and  bracts 
of,  4,  453;  covered  with  hoar  frost, 
6,  62,  63;  form  of  scale  of.  130; 
autumnal  coloring  of.  437;  seeds 
pf,  food  for  birds,  7,  127;  flame-like 
tops  of.  508;  bent  by  snow.  8,  67; 
seeds  of.  198;  color  of  young,  9, 
181;  collecting  sap  of,  331,  410; 
in  bloom,  369;  growing  in  parallel 
lines,   10,   414;     delicate   autumn 


foliage  of,  11,  229;  change  of  foli- 
age in  autumn,  237;  gossamer 
twigs  of,  249;  bravery  of,  334;  color 
reflections  from,  12,  77;  leaves  of, 
in  June,  13, 336;  distribution  of,  14, 
323   324 

Birch,' black.  2, 12,5, 147, 148,12, 18; 
young,  3,  373;  catkins  of,  5,  129; 
leaves  of,  225,  7,  513;  buds  of,  6, 
111;  scales  of.  differentiated  from 
white,  136;  some  large  trees,  379; 
color  of.  7,  63;  sap  of,  332,  8,  274; 
tapping,  273. 

Birch,  canoe  or  paper.  2,  195,  196,  6, 
138. 10, 433;  bark  of,  2,  233, 9,  340; 
compared  with  common,  3,  88; 
rooted  in  a  pine  stump,  89;  large 
specimens  of,  109;  sprouts  of,  6, 
30, 10,  257;  aspect  of  woods  of,  5, 
156;  catkins  of .  7,  370;  tapping,  8, 
273;  sap  of,  274,  319;  in  Bangor, 
O,  486;  a  large  specimen.  490;  an 
interesting  clump  of.  13,  83,  84. 

Birch,  white.  2,  196.  5,  147,  148,  8, 
13,  363;  compared  with  canoe,  3, 
88;  beauty  of,  4,  47,  48;  charm  of. 
447,  448;  beset  with  fungi,  448; 
leaves  of,  5,  119;  catkins  of,  129; 
scales  of.  6,  51;  grouping  of,  118,' 
119;  scale  of,  differentiated  from 
black,  136;  leafing  of,  260;  in  win- 
ter landscape,  7,  194;  tapping,  8, 
265;  sap  of,  311,  313;  seeds  of, 
9,  221;  bark  of,  334,  335,  340; 
sprouts  of,  10,  257;  branches  of, 
likened  to  smoke,  11,  260;  growing 
in  seams  of  rocks.  12, 160;  green  of, 
in  May,  13,  293.  See  aUo  under 
Birch. 

Birch,  yellow,  5,  148;  flowers  of.  129; 
curling  bark  of,  6,  129,  10,  260; 
leaf  and  blossom  of,  6,  255;  sap  of, 
8,  225.  272.9,  341,  342;  catkins  of, 
368-370;  form  of,  10,  22,  23;  its 
beauty  when  in  bloom,  12, 181, 182. 

Birch  bark,  5,  428,  9,  339,  340,  11, 
111. 

Birch  catkins.  4,  419.  453,  456, 5,  478. 

Birch  sap.  8,  265.  266.  272-274,  294. 
311,  319,  356. 

Birch  wine.  8,  274,  356.  384.  429. 

Birds,  song  of.  1, 125;  intimacy  with, 
in  the  rain,  132;  timidity  of,  480; 
solidarity  of  flocks  of,  2,  63;  on 
grass  stems,  3,  29,  30;  their  de- 
parture in  the  fall,  46;  in  April, 
377;   Gilpin  on  flight  of,  426;   best 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


358 


INDEX 


time  for  seeing  the  larger,  444; 
granivorous,  to  some  extent  inde- 
pendent of  the  seasons,  459;  mi- 
grations determined  by  food-supply, 
469;  notes  vary  with  seasons,  4, 31 ; 
impossible  to  imitate  their  notes  with 
words,  31;  list  of,  seen  between 
April  28th  and  May  14th,  50,  51; 
color  of  young,  141 ;  their  hour  for 
song,  182;  which  sing  all  summer, 
190;  songs  of,  in  fog,  197, 198;  their 
singing  as  affected  by  the  weather, 
245;  summer  silence  of,  282;  Frank 
Brown's  collection  of  mounted,  6, 
78;  the  best  authority  on,  110;  in 
the  rain,  110;  song  of,  the  keynote 
of  poetry,  144;  exterminated  by 
cutting  down  woods,  169;  signifi- 
cance of  meeting  with  a  rare  bird, 
247;  materials  used  for  nests  of, 
276;  young,  suffering  from  heat, 
290;  August,  389;  their  nests  simi- 
lar to  those  of  squirrels  and  mice, 
480;  wearing  dress  of  Nature,  489; 
wintry  notes  of,  6,  10;  of  the  win- 
ter of  1853-54,  145,  146;  inquisi- 
tiveness  of,  204,  9,  125;  common 
April  21st,  6,  211;  early,  seek  early 
trees,  217;  colors  of  small,  lost  by 
distance,  223;  common  about 
May  13th,  263;  songs  less  loud  in 
summer,  354;  summaries  of  ob- 
servations regarding,  389,  390.  413, 
435,  436,  457;  songs  of,  in  August, 
430,  440,  458;  list  of,  seen  in  au- 
tumn, 7,  30,  31;  Mass^na  collec- 
tion of,  74  and  note;  unidentified 
tracks  of,  on  snow,  127;  reason  for 
entering  yards  in  storms,  176;  snow 
useful  to,  in  finding  weeds,  197; 
nests  of,  broken  up,  252;  effect  of 
clouds  on  song  of,  311;  roosting- 
places  of,  318,  319;  on  a  cold  and 
windy  day,  336;  stillness  of,  at 
noon,  353;  digestion  of  birds  of 
prey,  376;  afraid  of  man.  510;  as 
entomologists.  8,  116;  the  return 
of  the,  263;  after  storm,  333;  agency 
of,  in  dispersing  seeds,  335,  411; 
and  the  human  ear,  9,  274,  275; 
evening  song  of,  389;  observed  in 
Maine  woods,  497;  changing  ap- 
pearance of  a  flock  in  the  air,  10*  28; 
associations  wakened  by  notes  of, 
304;  distinguished  with  difficulty 
when  flying,  338;  kteping  cool  in 
hot  weather,  423;    in  the  White 


Mountains,  11,  34,  51;  list  of  those 
heard  in  August,  1858,  104;  the 
way  to  listen  to,  12,  21;  prot-ection 
of,  124,  125;  singing  to  men,  144; 
berry-eating,  309,  310;  influence  of 
air-currents  on  flight  of,  442,  443; 
their  agency  in  preserving  the  equi- 
librium of  nature,  13,  295.  296; 
"matinade"  of,  358;  discrimina- 
tors of  fruits,  14,  8;  of  Mt.  Monad- 
nock,  32-34,  67. 

Birds,  unidentified,  3,  434,  4,  328, 
388,  6,  51.  99,  146,  175,  246.  426. 
458,  459,  468.  470.  6,  28,  197,  198, 
312,  313,  321,  343.  363,  369.  372. 
459, 488. 7, 62,  77, 94, 189, 190, 243, 
329,  359,  360,  371,  379,  380,  382. 
392,  397,  399.  457.  458, 8,  342,  355, 
9,  8,  92, 183, 10,  330,  331,  395,  396, 
408,  421,  423, 11,  34,  35,  44,  45,  64. 
117,  118,  177. 12,  108.  190.    • 

Birds'  eggs,  gems,  4,  268,  269;  an 
addled  egg,  8,  10,  11;  mortality  of. 
14,  167,  168. 

Birds'  nests,  adaptation  of  material 
used  in,  3,  102;  unidentified,  7, 
390,  442,  8,  10,  23,  73,  74,  89,  90, 
108,  109,  113,  114,  359, 11, 140, 12, 
17,  18,  237,  13,  40;  the  time  to 
study,  8,  73;   linings  of,  368. 

Bittern,  American,  or  stake-driver 
(Ardea  minor),  1,  138, 141, 3,  5,  46, 
54.  69,  76, 4,  28.  233.  234,  6,  367, 8, 
350, 10, 60, 498, 11, 68. 148, 446, 12, 
266;  pumping  of,  2,  255,  4,  107. 
123, 124,  5, 152, 193.9, 421, 13, 331. 
332;  flight  of,  2,  304,  7,  380,  11. 
139;  homeward  plodding  of,  4, 334; 
standing  like  a  stake,  334;  in  hid' 
ing,  7,  456;  protective  coloring  of, 
453, 13,  250,  251;  eggs  of,  10,  444; 
nest  of,  11,  134;  different  names 
for,  251;  croak  of,  12,  248,  249, 13, 
346;  a  dead,  14,  110;  contents  of 
stomach  of,  133,  337. 

Bittern,  green,  or  green  heron,  8,  435, 
14,  61;  notes  of,  6, 377;  the  bird  of 
the  Musketicook.  8,  440. 

Bittern,  least  (Ardea  exUU),  13,  421. 

Bitternuts,  4,  361. 

Bitter-sweet,  berries  of.  4,  308. 

Black  Horse  Church,  6,  94. 

Blackberries,  8,  419;  price  of,  436. 

Blackberry,  varieties  of,  8,  460.  See 
also  Rubus. 

Blackberry,  high,  6,  366,  377,  11, 
139;  superiority  of,  4,  316;  leaf  of. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


359 


7,  512;  a  new  variety  of,  10,  14, 
15;  richness  of,  19. 

Blackberry,  low,  5,  324;     red    leaves 

of,  7,  56,  494;  acid  of  fruit.  8,  415; 

fra^ance  of,  10,  496;   late  fruit  of, 

12,  297. 
Blackberry,  red  (Rvbus  triflorua),  6, 

309.  6,  297, 9,  476. 
Blackberry,    snake    {RubuB   aemper- 

virena),  11,  150. 
Blackbird,  cow.   See  Cowbird. 
Blackbird,  crow,  6,  202.  268, 13,  422; 

notes  of.  4,  34,  6,  265,  7,  297,  307. 

8,  285, 14,  58;  flight  of.  4,  34,  6, 
262;  nest  of,  6,  332, 7,  369,  420.  8, 
160,  161;  settlement  of,  9,  419; 
young,  12,  204. 

Blackbird,  red-wing,  5,  33, 7,  343, 12, 
140. 13,  196;  notes  of,  3,  409,  457. 
6,  202, 7,  261. 8,  240,  250,  266,  290, 
313,  10,  303,  308;  chase  of  female 
by,  4,  169;  habits  of,  6,  61,  62; 
brilliance  of,  153;  nest  of,  301,  6, 
268,  7,  418,  8,  68.  69,  9,  397;  the 
blackbird  morning,  6,  164;  like 
black  fruit  on  a  tree,  7,  342;  fe- 
male, 376;  eggs  of,  386,  387,  414, 
415,  417;  young,  421;  b^inningto 
build,  10,  398;  enemy  to  hawk.  487; 
calling  the  river  to  life,  12, 35;  form 
of  flock  in  flight,  13, 198;  a  concert,. 
264,  265;  flocks  of  young,  14,  58. 
See  also  under  Blackbirds. 

Blackbird,  rusty,  or  rusty  grackle,  6, 
249, 7,  54,  282,  317,  8,  273,  284, 10, 
101,  102,  131,  132,  308,  11,  186; 
notes  of,  7, 297, 298, 8, 273, 284, 10, 
95,  12,  48,  451,  13,  183;  flight  of, 
11,  215;  searching  for  food,  12,  48. 

Blackbirds,  chattering  bound  of,  4, 
30;  warble  of,  36;  concert  of,  37; 
migrating,  5,  26;  slow  to  b^n 
singing,  26;  first  and  second  notes 
of,  27;  trying  to  sing,  37;  notes  of, 
61;  a  congregation  of,  91;  confined 
to  certain  localities,  94;  abundance 
in  former  times,  241,  242;  military 
discipline  among,  418;  wariness  of, 
6,  212;  form  of  flock  in  flight,  8, 
244;  sign-like  note  of.  244,  245, 
250, 9, 312;  notes  of,  8, 283;  chatter 
of,  9,  297;  a  blackbird  pursuing  an 
owl,  457;  calling  the  months  along, 
10,  304;  whistle  like  sparks,  12,  5; 
flight  of  a  flock  of,  44;  a  compact 
flock  of,  93,  94;  hiding  among  but- 
ton-bushes, 13,  258. 


Black-cock,  3,  427. 

Blackfish,  7,  436,  441,  442,  463,  464; 
story  of  a,  9,  423;  bones  of,  451; 
Lawson  on,  451  note. 

Blackfish  oil,  7, 446. 

Black-grass,  8,  386. 

Bladderwort,  common  (UtrictUaria 
vulgaris),  11,  94;  like  a  sluttish 
woman,  4,  91;  propagation  of,  13, 
185. 

Bladderwort,  purple  iU.  purpurea) , 
5,  315,  10,  21;  an  abundance  of, 
11,  73. 

Bladderwort,  whorled.  10,  21. 

Blake,  Harrison  G.  O.,  up  Assabet 
with,  8,  16;  sees  a  summer  duck, 
16;  a  ride  with,  380;  a  walk  with, 
in  Worcester,  10,  440;  Monadnock 
excursion  'Fith,  452-480;  meeting 
with,  on  Sit.  Washington.  11,  29; 
climbing  the  mountain.  35;  on 
Concord  River  with,  12,  165; 
around  Flint's  Pond  with,  378;  in 
Worcester  with,  14,  339. 

Blanchard,  Luther,  3,  331. 

Blank-book,  to  write  thoughts  in,  2, 
472. 

Blasius.  Professor,  3,  278. 

Blasting,  careless,  14,  250,  251. 

"Blazon  of  Gentry.  The,"  11,  357. 

Blodget,  Lorin,  14,  335.  ^ 

Blood,  circulation  of  the.  1, 172. 

Blood,  Perez,  2,  288,  3,  137;  auction 
of  his  eflfects,  8,  362. 

Blue,  12,  78;  fascination  of,  4,  284; 
in  distance,  11,  439. 

Blueberries,  6,  294,  13,  418;  princi- 
pal wild  fruit,  4,  158,  159;  a  hill 
fruit.  196;  ambrosial  fruit,  5,  342; 
an  Olympian  fruit,  360,  361;  on 
Mt.  Monadnock,  14,  12-14;  best 
localities  for,  309.  See  also  Berries 
and  Huckleberries. 

Blueberry,  distribution  of,  14,  297, 

Blueberry,  dwarf  (Vacdnium  Penn- 
sylvanicum),  4,  176,  177,  6,  393,  9, 
475, 11,  64, 14,  153,  298.  299.  300- 
302.  See  also  Vacdnium  Cana- 
dense. 

Blueberry,  high,  or  bilberry  (Vao 
cinium  coryinbo8um),2t  53,  59.  5, 
163,  331. 14, 299;  flowers  of,  5, 190; 
a  blueberry  swamp,  341,  342;  the 
essence  of  the  swamp,  364;  ber- 
ries ripened  by  rain,  368;  leaves 
turned  red.  449;  buds  of,  482; 
shoots  of,  10,   192;    in  Gowing's 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


360 


INDEX 


Swamp,  196, 197;  an  old  bush,  228; 
some  old  bushes,  278;  scent  of 
flowers  of,  482;  fruit  of,  11,  97, 14, 
62;  a  handsome  bush  of,  13,  39, 
40;  a  grove  of,  47. 
Blueberry,  low  (F.  vaciUant),  4,  209, 
9, 141, 1^,  191. 14,  299;  flowers  of, 

4,  90;  berries  of,  6,  393,  478;  buds 
of,  9,  193;  subterranean  shoots  of, 
14,  153. 

Blueberry-pickers,  4,  176,  177. 

Bluebin],  1,  449,  8,  270,  9,  279,  11, 
453,  12,  30,  13,  234;  notes  of,  2, 
310,  3,  344,  5,  26,  32.  94.  7,  274. 
602,  8,  408,  10,  302,  14,.  320,  321; 
carrying  the  sky,  3,  386;  song  of, 
at  dawn,  4,  254;   herald  of  spring, 

5,  15;  weather  prophets,  23;  in 
vernal  dress,  93;  peep  of  young, 
357;  in  uniform,  488;  color  of,  6, 
206;  plumage  of  young,  7, 35;  food 
in  winter,  249;  heard  out  of  the 
blue  deeps,  257;  ventriloquism  of, 
261;  usual  date  of  arrival,  8,  201; 
nest  of,  332.  385;  the  serene,  12,  5; 
popularity  of,  21,  22;  the  inno- 
cent. 34,  35. 

Blue-curls  {Trichoatema  dichotomum) , 
2,  123, 3,  58,  138.  4,  240, 7,  247. 9, 
141;  aroma  of.  4,  250,  266;  frost- 
covered,  6,  63;  as  weather-cocks, 
10,303. 

Bluefish,  seining  for,  9,  431. 

Bluet.  See  Houetonia  caerulea. 

Boarding,  1,  227. 

Boats,  the  building  of,  1,  137;  in  a 
boat  with  a  young  lady,  144;  a  boat 
on  wheels,  439;  aground  at  Pat- 
chogue,  2, 78, 79;  on  the  Ohio.  231; 
like  living  creatures,  359,  360;  the 
kind  best  adapted  to  Concord 
River,  3,  28;  various  patterns  of, 
on  the  river,  74.  75;  an  unruly 
boat,  77;  a  convenient  model,  98; 
a  moving  studio.  4,  325;  a  travel- 
ling home,  327,  328;  painting  a 
boat,  5,  27,  28;  a  badly  arranged 
boat,  39;  faults  of  T.'s  boat,  42; 
a  drifting  boat,  202;  getting  ready 
for  the  water,  7,  234;  an  Indian 
fishing-boat.  476.  477;  as  taxable 
property.  8,  36,  37;  getting  in  the 
boat,  9, 148;  a  neglected  boat,  181; 
different  kinds  used  on  the  Concord, 
272;  measuring  progress  of,  468; 
calked  with  newspaper,  11,  162; 
T.'s  boat  under  sail,  12,  69. 


Boat^ouses,  compared  to  muskrats' 

cabins,  4,  422,  423. 
Bobolink,  song  of,  2,  275.  4,  159,  5, 

133,  136,  137.  282,  6,  430.  8,  333. 

9,  378,  397-399,  446,  13,  402;  faU 
note  of,  4,  229,  303.  7,  443;  de- 
generation of,  4,  246;  flocks  of, 
296,  6,  441;  flight  of,  5,  163,  164; 
young  of,  335.  336;  eggs  of,  9,  413, 

10,  507;  child's  comment  on  song 
of,  9,  446;  anxious  about  nests. 
460;  nest  of,  10,  503;  a  white,  11, 
108,  111. 

Body,  the,  care  of,  1,  147,  221;  its 
kinship  with  the  soul,  174,  176; 
protection  of,  in  winter,  201,  202; 
exercise  of,  2,  140,  141;  decreased 
vigor  of,  at  night,  238. 

Boehmeria,  6,  408. 

Bogs,  on  Mt.  Monadnock,  10,  471- 
474. 

Bonaparte.  See  Buonaparte. 

Bond,  Henry,  quoted  on  the  Jones 
genealogy,  8,187. 

Bones,  human,  lying  on  the  beach,  2, 
44.  80;  an  old  bone  in  the  woods, 
93,  94;  of  blackfish  and  whale,  9, 
451. 

"Book  of  Gems,  The,"  verse,  1,  82. 

Books,  effect  of  noble  sentiments  in, 
1, 55;  silence  and,  68;  men's  use  of, 
.  144;  good  books  inciting  to  action, 
216;  read  in  sickness,  223;  home- 
liness in,  237;  true,  238;  notes  in 
universal  harmony,  260;  authority 
of  the  great,  268;  preservation  of 
old,  274;  intimacy  of,  282;  of  nat- 
ural history,  305-307;  books  for 
the  woods,  330,  331;  should  ripple 
slowly,  352,  353;  how  suitably 
read,  369-371;  suggested  by  Hal- 
lam,  396-398;  criticism  of  a  con- 
temporary book,  462,  463;  in  Mon- 
treal, 2,  77;  wild  naturalness  in, 
97;  a  want  in,  307;  libraries  un- 
suitable places  for,  3,  270, 271 ;  and 
originality,  270,  271;  nature  and, 
270,271;  that  are  books.  353;  sug- 
gestion for  a  memorial  of  October 
foliage,  5,  516;  inferiority  of,  to 
truth,  6,  100;  Ricketson's  favorite, 
9,323,324;  on  Cape  Cod,  445;  the 
records  of  genuine  experience,  10, 
190;  advice  about  reading  of,  14, 
311. 

Bookstores,  in  New  York,  visited,  9, 
138. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


361 


[ 


\Bood,  killed  by  Indians,  2,  458. 

Boon's  Pond,  walk  to,  2,  452-458. 

Boots,  5,  51, 52;  varieties  of,  used  by 
T.,  6,  115;  suggestive  of  walks,  9, 
150:  purchase  of,  156;  heels  on  wo- 
men's, 13,  52,  53.    See  also  Shoes. 

Boston,  dealings  of,  with  slavery 
question,  2,  175. 

Boston  Academy's  Reports  for  1785, 
.        14, 224. 

\  Boston  Court-House,  attack  on,  6, 
328. 

Boston  Harbor,  islands  in,  2,  344, 
345;  frozen  over,  9,  226,  232. 

"Boston  Herald,"  2,  179,  181,  182. 

"Boston  Journal,"  2,  179,  181,  14, 
313. 
*-  "Boston  Times,"  2,  179.  181,  182. 

Botanies,  the  prose  of  flowers,  3, 
257. 

Botanists,  the  early  and  the  modem, 
14,  92. 

Botany,  worth  of,  2,  409;  early  his- 
tory of,  3, 118;  advice  for  reading, 
308,  309;  scientific  terms  easily 
learned,  347;  poor  descriptions  of 
species  in,  5, 188,  189;  study  of,  9, 
156-158. 

Botany-box,  made  of  hat,  4,  133. 

Botrychium  lunariaides,  9,  124,  125. 

Botta,  Paul  fimile,  quoted,  1,  343. 

Bougainville,  Louis  Antoine  de, 
quoted,  2,  246. 

Boutwell,  Mr.,  of  Groton,  14,  86. 

Boutwell,  Gov.  George  S.,  and  the 
Sims  case,  2,  174;  as  a  lecturer,  3, 
190. 

Bowels,  3,  165;  and  brains,  5,  264, 
265;   and  stars,  13,  22. 

Bowers,  Matthias,  9,  356. 

Box,  life  in  a,3, 240. 241. 

Boxboro,  churchgoing  habit  of,  4, 
467;  Inches  Woods  in,  14,  224- 
231.  241-249,  304;  history  of, 
275. 

Boys,  a  boy  asks  about  "old-agers," 
1, 413;  a  little  Irish  boy,  2, 117, 118. 
3,  149.  150.  241-244;  smoking  ci- 
gars, 2,  341;  four  little  Irish  boys 
and  a  horse.  ^,  98;  the  boy  and  the 
bound,  10,  172,  173.  177. 

Bradford,  George  P..  2,  365,  5,  316, 

8,  461, 10,  14. 11,  18, 13,  428. 
Bradford,  William,  his  ".History  of 

the  Plymouth  Plantation  "  quoted, 

9,  164.  169.  170,  177. 
Bradley,  Joseph,  3,  284. 


Bradshaw,  of  Wayland,  ornithologi- 
cal collection  of,  13,  419-421. 

Brady.  Miss  Kate.  7,  467, 468. 9,  335, 
336. 

Brady  house,  the.  7,  467,  468. 

Brahma,  2,  4. 

Brahmans,  in  early  times,  2,  32. 

Brain,  size  of,  at  birth,  4,  349. 

Brakes,  root  of,  5,  506,  507;  autum- 
nal decay  of,  6,  437;  fallen  in 
ranks,  11,  207. 

Brand,  John,  his  "^Popular  Antiqui- 
ties," 13,  159,  240. 

Brant,  7,  25,  8,  31, 14,  167. 

Brash,  grating  noise  of,  10,  304. 

Btxutenia  peltata,  4,  168. 

Brassica,  14,  55,  75,  158. 

Brattleboro  (Vt.),  T.'s  visit  to,  9,  61- 
74. 

Bravery,  1,  96-99,  164;  qualities  of, 
172;    of  facing  one's  own  deeds,     ^ 
285. 

Bread,  art  of  making.  1,  430,  431. 

Bream,  1,  475,  12,  83;  as  food,  4, 
82;  nests  of,  4,  149,  165,  171,  212, 
6,  261,  8,  376.  9,  460.  10,  486,  12, 
261,  262, 13,  323,  324;  schools  of, 
4,  261;  young,  5,  252,  9,  460;  an 
aboriginal  fish,  5,  314;  food  of, 
325;  effect  of  drought  on,  6,  481; 
over  nest,  8,  376;  building  a  nest, 
13,  323,  324. 

Bream,  striped,  11,  346-350, 358-360, 
363,  364. 13,  273. 

Breathing,  importance  of  proper,  2, 
251. 

Breed's  location,  1, 420;  tragedies  of,  '''^ 
424. 

Breeze,  undertone  of,  8,  309. 

"Breeze's  Invitation,  The,"  vorse,  1, 
86. 

Brewer,  Thomas  M.,  quoted,  7,  399, 
8,  387,  10,  449,  456.  U.  167.  397. 
398. 13,  422. 

Brewster  (Mass.),  9,  435,  436.  — 

Brewster,  Sir  David,  his  Life  of  New-    ^ 
ton,  8,  362. 

Bricks,  old,  2,  7, 9,  259,  260. 

Bridge,  aspect  of  traveller  on,  4,  152. 

Brigham,  the  wheelwright,  4,  166. 

Briney,  talk  with,  10,  220,  221. 

Brister.  Sippio.  1, 420;  grave  of  2, 20. 

Brister's  Hill.  1,  420. 

"British  Reptiles,"  quoted,  10,  486, 
487. 

British  soldiers,  killed  April  19.  1775, 
2,19. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


36« 


INDEX 


Britton,  mistaken  treatment  of  a 
wood-lot  by,  14,  176,  177. 

Broad,  Dexter,  7,  100. 

Bronchitis.  1,  214, 14,  290  note. 

Brooks,  crime  of  the,  3,  82;  T.'s  love 
of,  96,  97;  lavish  flow  of,  155,  156; 
sound  of  a  brook,  300:  a  brook 
compared  to  a  loom,  455;  require- 
t  ments  in  a  brook,  3,  374;  the  bot- 
!  tom  of  a  brook,  398.  399. 5, 15;  the 
meandering  of,  400,  401;  intelli- 
gence of,  6,  277,  278;  law  govern- 
ing course  of,  278;  the  currency  of, 
10,  250;  in  Concord,  temperatures 
of.  13,  392. 

Brooks,  Mrs., 5,  204,7,515,8,212,9, 
281. 

Brooks.  Abd.  12,  456.  456;  on  T.'s 
Society. 9, 331;  surveying  with,  10, 
224. 

Brooks.  George,  5,  204.  205, 7,  411, 8, 
216. 10,  16. 

Brooks,  Thomas.  10,  480,  481. 

Broom  (plant).   See  Oeniata  Hnctoria, 

Broom-corn,  9,  62. 

Brother,  an  improved  edition  of  one's 
self.  11,  232. 

Brougham.  Lord.  3,  35. 

Brown,  terrestrial,  in  spring,  12,  41, 
45;   the  "brown  season,"  113,  230. 

Brown,  Mrs.,  9,  462. 

Brown,  Miss  Frances,  9,  70. 

Brown,  F.  C.  5,  21.22. 

Brown.  Frank,  3,  127.  354, 4,  494. 6, 
93,  123,  144;  his  collection  of 
mounted  birds.  5,  78. 

Brown.  Deacon  Joe,  6,  31;  anecdote 
about,  9,  206. 

Brown,  James  P.,  his  pond,  3, 99-101. 

Brown,  John,  merchant.  6,  200. 
'^  Brown,  Capt.  John,  his  raid.  12,  400- 
402.  403-410.  411-439.  445.  446. 
447;  attitude  of  newspapers 
toward,  406.  407,  424.  435,  439, 13, 
18, 19;  utterances  of,  12, 415,  416; 
family  of,  426;  an  anecdote  of,  449; 
the  suggested  tolling  of  Concord 
bell  at  hanging  of,  457;  weeping, 
13,  4;  miraculous  character  of  his 
career,  6, 7;  transit  of  his  body,  10; 
his  English,  10,  11;  attitude  of 
men  toward,  12-15;  a  discussion 
concerning  the  conduct  of,  14,  291. 

Brown,  Joshua,  3,  301,  302. 

Brown,  Miss  Mary,  9,  70. 

Brown,  Deacon  Reuben,  3,  124;  ac- 
count-book found  in  his  garret,  6, 


77-80;  his  property  auctioned,  80; 
episode  of  "Ann,"  109. 

Brown,  Simon.  10,  279. 

Brown,  Theodore,  of  Worcester,  89 
378,  380, 10,  440;  in  White  Moun- 
tains, 11,  29,  35;  in  Concord,  12, 
165;  in  Worcester  with,  14,  339. 

Brown,  Warren,  10,  111. 

Brown,  William,  4,  483. 

Brush  Island,  2,  348. 

Brutes,  civilization  among,  1,  396; 
genius  of,  for  mystery,  470. 

Bryant,  Dr.  Henry,  10,  503, 11,  366, 
367. 

Bryant,  William  Cullen,  his  "Fringed 
Gentian,"  4,  391. 

Bubbles,  in  a  brook,  3,  299,  300;  re- 
flections in,  356, 357;  formation  of, 
in  ice,  4,  450,  461;  permanency  of, 
in  ice,  456-458;  after  rains,  7,  11? 
of  hydrc^en  gas  in  water,  9,  474. 

Buchanan,  President.  11,  148.  / 

Buck-bean,  ff,  163. 7,  384, 9,  44. 

Buckeye,  1,  130. 

Buckthorn,  7,  63. 

Buddha,  2,  4.  / 

Buds,  in  winter,  4,  419.  6,  88.  8,  99, 
100;  as  a  theme  for  a  book,  10, 258. 

Buenos  Ayres,  2,  233,  242. 

Buffalo,  the,  1,  130. 

Buffon,  7,  122. 

Buffum,  Jonathan,  visit  to,  10,  243- 
247. 

Bugle,  note  of,  1,  159,  2,  303. 

Bugs.   See  Insects. 

Building,  old  methods  of.  2, 7,  16. 17. 

Bull,  swims  across  Walden,  9,  357. 

Bull.  Ephraim  W..  3,  352,  7,  428,  8, 
227. 

Bullfrog,  4,  89,  107,  162,  5,  231.  298. 
10,  328;  trump  of.  1,  379.  380.  4, 
124.  125. 5, 145,  250.  251,  253.  285, 
387,  409-111,  485;  wassailers,  1, 
379. 380;  aUied  to  a  Uly  pad.  4, 125; 
buried  in  mud.  6,  6;  snake  caught 
by  a,  476;  and  trip-hanmier.  7, 
445,  446;  swallowing  a  smaller 
frog,  8,  424;  vanquishing  a  snake, 
10,  45;  rescuing  a,  229;  motionless 
but  ready,  11,  94.  • 

Bullocks.  See  Cattle. 

Bulrush.  3,  73.  4,  391, 6,  488,  489, 7, 
458;  phalanxes  of.  12,  231. 

Bumblebee,  hum  of,  4,  34,  328;  on 
thistle.  286. 

Bunchberry.  See  Cornel,  dwarf. 

Bunting,  black-throated,  7,  435. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


363 


Buntii%,  snow,  w  arctic  snowbird,  3» 
367. 6,  32, 8,  80, 81,9,  235, 10,  287, 
11,  290,  291, 13,  36,  71,  72;  habits 
of,  6,  33, 34, 11,  370. 371 ;  genius  of 
the  snow-storm,  6,  43,  45;  notes  of, 
8,  91.  112;  a  large  flock  of,  9,  228, 
229;  tracks  of,  11,  392;  like  ghosts 
of  birds,  1«,  6,  7;  a  flock  of,  feed- 
ing, 13,  41-43;  love  of  wandering, 
100. 

Buonaparte,  Napoleon,  1,  95,  462. 

Burd,  Edward  Shippen,  7,  75  note. 

Burning  brush,  2,  27-29. 

Bums,  Anthony,  case  of,  6,  313-315, 
339,  340,  365-358,  364-366. 

Burns,  Jennie,  10,  262.  276. 

Bur-reed  iSparganium) ,  4,  163,  6, 
406,  488. 8,  20,  429, 12,  269. 

Burritt,  Elijah  H.,  his  "  Geography  of 
the  Heavens  "  quoted,  3,  9. 

Burs,  in  winter,  9,  205. 

Burton,  Sir  Richard,  quoted,  9,  251, 
252, 14,  296. 

Business,  sordidness  of,  2,  328;  King 
Admetus,  378;  a  negation  of  life,  4, 
162. 

"Buster,"  a  good  name,  3,  117. 

Butcher-bird.    See  Shrike. 

Buteux,  P^re,  description  of  whirl- 
pool by,  9,  298. 

Butter-and-eggs,  4,  142, 143. 

Buttercup,  bulbous,  7,  293. 

Buttercups.  5,  193,  229,  7,  295;  radi- 
cal leaves  of,  13,  196.  See  also 
Crowfoot  and  Ranunculus. 

Butterflies,  2,  308,  318,  5,  341,  13, 
302,  3a3,  414,  416;  look  like  flow- 
ers. 2,  322;  blue-slate,  8,  315;  the 
earliest.  10,  335;  small  blue,  12, 
167;  protective  coloration  in,  180; 
large  yellow  and  black,  13,  351, 
352. 

Butterfly,  PapUio  Tumus,  12,  198, 
199. 

Butterfly,  Vanessa  Antiopa,  6,  31,  34, 
104, 109,  8,  242,  9,  308,  311,  469, 
10,  397. 

Butterfly,  Vanessa  j-albutn,  10,  341 

-    and  note. 

butterfly,  yellow,  2,  308.  319, 6,  411, 
41^2;  fleets  of ,  4,  226,  227. 

Butternut,  nuts  of,  3,  44;  buds  of,  6, 
280. 

Button-bush,  2, 222,  310, 3,  33, 7, 15, 
8, 20. 10,  55,  U,  407, 12,  267;  leaf- 
ing of.  5,  176, 6,  302;  wildness  of, 
5,261;  buds  of.  6,  281;  growth  in 


hummocks,  287;  confervs  on,  327; 
effect  of  frost  on,  7,  52,  53;  in  the 
fall,  54;  the  floating  fencing-stuflF 
of  the  river,  12,  227-229;  trans- 
plantation of,  233;  balls  of,  395, 
396;  condition  of,  in  June,  13,  336. 

Buttonwood,  2,  8,  3,  4,  34,  36,  7,  6f , 
13,336,351;  makes  poor  timber,  2, 
10;  blossoming  of,  6, 278;  difficulty 
of  cutting,  11,  263;  shedding  its 
bark,  12,  275;  whiteness  of.  290. 

Buttrick,  Mrs.,  3,  287. 

Buttrick,  George,  10,  174. 

Buttrick,  Humphrey,  7,  353, 12,  245; 
his  manner  of  catching  woodcock 
and  partridges,  8,  354,  355;  a  talk 
with,  9,  300;  on  the  little  dipper, 
10,  225, 12, 102;  meadow-hen  shot 
by,  232. 

Buttrick,  Gen.  Joshua,  2,  332. 

Buttrick,  Stedman,  3,  248.  394,  5,  6, 
205,  208;  talk  with.  10,  129;  teUs 
story  about  Dr.  Ripley,  166;  tells  a 
cow  story,  168;  boundary  dispute 
with  Mr.  Gordon,  172.  173,  176, 
177;  personality  of,  176,  177;  a 
"left-tenant,"  12,  149;  keeping 
birds  off  cherry  tree,  241. 

".By  a  strong  liking  we  prevail," 
verse,  1,  113.  • 

Byron,  Lord,  1,  62. 

Cable,  the  transatlantic,  laying  of.  lly 

87.  88;  celebration  of,  112. 
Cabot,  .T.  EUiot.5, 110,6, 19. 
Cabot.  Dr.  Samuel.  7,  463, 10, 248. 
Caddis-worms,  cases  of,  1, 482, 4, 393, 

408.  451,  8,  415. 
Cadmus,  6,  133. 
Cakile  Americana,  7,  433. 
Calabash,  4,  70. 
Calamint.  fragrance  of,  6,  395. 
Calf,   awkward  gait  of,  3,  28,  29; 

Emerson's,  6, 15;  two-headed.  206, 

8,34;  strength  of ,  13,  283. 
Calico,  making,  2,  347. 
California,  the  rush  to  the  gold-fields 

of,  3,  265-267;   treatment  of  trees 

in.  10,  89,  90. 
"California"  of  Colton,  quoted, 2, 73. 
Callitriche,  6,  205. 
CaUitriche  verna,  5,  78. 
Calnmess,  in  nature  and  life,  2,  268. 
Calopogon  pulcheUus,  4,  138, 189, 200. 

217,  5,  288;    compared  with  the 

pogonia,  295,  299. 
Caltha  poZtMfrts.  See  Cowslip. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


364 


INDEX 


\ 


CSamelopard,  7,  76. 

Oamilla,  the  swift.  2, 226, 13, 385, 386. 

Camp,  of  the  Townsend  Light  Infan- 
try, 1,  160. 

Oamphor,  as  a  barometer,  9,  34. 

CSampine  outfit  for  Maine  woods,  9, 
487  488. 

Campion  (N.  H.),  1,  91. 

Canada,  T.'s  excursion  to,  2,  73; 
architecture  of  houses  in,  75,  76; 
dress  in,  91;  what  it  is  not,  337; 
observations  on,  398-401;  feudal 
system  in,  412;  results  of  visit  to, 
417,  418;  antiquity  of,  493;  books 
on,  3,  352;  a  fugitive  slave  in,  14, 
292.293. 

Canadian,  how  detected,  3,  393. 

Canal-boat,  on  the  Concord,  12, 281. 

Candlemas  Day,  9,  235. 

Cannon-balls,  9,  314. 

Cannon  Mountain,  11,  53. 

Oanoea.  an  old  log  canoe,  5,  265,  266; 
the  making  of  birch  canoes,  428- 
431. 9,  492,  493. 

".Canterbury  Tales,"  Prologue  to,  1, 
358. 

Cap,  of  woodchuck-skin,  13, 166. 

Cape  Ann,  expedition  to,  11, 170-180, 
187,  188;  rocks  of,  177;  dunes  of, 
178;  boulders  ob,  179;  coast-line 
of,  180. 

Cape  Cod,  expeditions  to,  7,  431-443, 
9,  413-455;  woods  on,  430,  434, 
435;  fog  on.  448,  449. 

Cape  de  Verd  Islands.  2,  240. 

Cape  Wrath,  name  of,  4, 318. 

CapeUn,  9,  291. 

Cardinal-flower.  2, 410, 4, 285. 6, 429, 
9,  29;  its  effect  on  cows,  11, 134. 

Cardoon,  2,  242. 

Carew,  Thomas,  1,  465. 

Carex.  See  Sedges. 

Caribou.  9,  488. 

Carlisle,  public  education  in.  3,  26;  a 
house  in.  136,  137;  churchgoing 
habit  of,  4, 467. 

Carlisle  road.  5, 239. 12, 345, 348. 349. 

Carlyle,  Thomas,  genius  of.  1,  336. 
337;  on  Rousseau's  "Confessions," 
412;  a  reformer,  413;  an  heroic 
worker.  431 ;  first  impression  of  his 
works  the  truest  and  deepest.  482, 
483;  nervous  character  of  his  writ- 
ing. 2,  468;  on  observation,  4,  351. 

Camac,  1,  375-377. 

*t  Carolina  Sports  by  Land  and  War 
ter."  14,  315-319. 


Carpenter,  Dr.  William  Benjamin,  his 
••Vegetable  Physiology"  quoted, 
12,  23.  24.  33.  143.  ^ 

Carpenters,  at  work  on  a  bridge,  2, 
397. 

Carpinus,  wood  of,  9,  377. 

Carrion-flower,  4,  96;  odor  of.  149; 
fruit  of.  5, 352. 353. 404,  U,  122. 

Carrot,  common,  4,  179. 

Carrot,  wild,  2,  278. 

Carver,  Capt.  Jonathan,  quoted,  4, 
97. 

Casey,  a  negro  slave,  9,  212, 10,  284, 
285. 

Cassandra,  dwarf,  3,  414.  See  alao 
Andromeda,  dwarf. 

Cassia,  9,  4. 

Ccuaiope  hypnoides,  11,  42. 

Caetanea  veeca.  See  Chestnut. 

Cat,  domestic,  in  wild  state,  2,  89; 
a  disturbing  caterwaul,  98;  as  a 
hunter,  184;  playing  with  swal- 
lows, 255;  not  fit  for  a  river  voy- 
age, 3,  75;  a  California,  6,  316;  a 
fragrant,  7,  173;  a  much-travelled. 
185;  a  mole-catcher,  202;  Minott's 
cats,  8,  31;  an  egg-eater,  40;  curi- 
ous method  of  drowning  a,  9,  204; 
Provincetown  cats,  453;  an  anec- 
dote about  the  Hoars',  10, 223;  as 
an  ornithologist,  11,  191;  as  a  por- 
tent, 191;  wildness  in.  259;  caught 
in  a  trap.  12,  323;  habits  of,  357. 
See  aUo  Kitten  and  Min. 

Catbird,  notes  of,  4,  5,  39,  67,  68,  5, 
124.  143;  nest  of.  6,  405,  7,  411, 
412,  419,  429,  8,  96. 13,  328;  song 
of.  7,  376. 10,  412;  eggs  of,  7,  409. 

Cat-briar.  See  Green-briar. 

Catchfly.  sleepy  or  snapdragon 
iS^ne  Anttrrhina),  4,  98.  5,  213. 

Caterpillars,  nests  of,  4, 196. 7,  331 , 8, 
305,  306;  on  shrub  oaks,  5,  398; 
depredations  on  wild  cherry  and 
apple  trees.  6,  330;  on  oak  leaves. 
406.  407;  found  in  winter.  7,  115; 
on  the  snow.  249;  frozen  and  re- 
vived. 9,  212;  frosen.  253;  on  wil- 
lows. 468.  469;  washed  out  of 
meadow  by  freshets.  10,  213.  214; 
places  of  refuge  of.  254;  in  the  ioe. 
11,  416-419.  420-422.  427.  12,  22. 
See  also  Worms. 

"Catiline."  Jonson's  tragedy.  1,  201. 

Catnep.  4,  32.  7,  293.  8,  241,  293;  in 
snow.  9, 198;  as  a  symbol,  12,  341. 

Cato.  a  negro,  1,  430. 5,  524,  525. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


365 


Gbto  the  Elder,  his  "De  Re  Rustica" 
quoted.  2,  442,  444,  445,  450, 3,  61, 
6,  eS,  69,  71-73,  106,  107. 

Cat-tail  iTypha  laHfolia),  3,  226,  7, 
436,  8,  80,  10,  6;  down  of,  6,  43. 
44;  pollen  of ,  6,  369,  370;  remark- 
.  ably  tall,  12,  267,  273. 
\  Cattle,  excited  by  grubs,  4,  72.  73; 
fanuliarity  of,  vn\h  fSBar,-W2;  neat 
SMspect  of,  134;  their  alertness  to 
perceive  a  step,  137;  good  be- 
havior of.  189;  endurance  of 
young,  5,  527;  swimming,  9,  418; 
sportivenees  in,  10, 193;  song  of  the 
dying  bullock,  12,  301.  See  also 
Cows. 

Cedar,  red.  northern  limit  of,  2,  200;- 
apples  of,  5,  173;  berries  of.  173. 
530;  buds  of,  482;  fragrance  of.  6, 
221;  pollen  of.  7,  332;  forms  of 
leaves  of,  13,  311. 

Cedar,  white,  2,  200 ;  large  trees.  5, 
602,  603;  a  dense  growth  of,  7,  90; 
pollen  of.  332 ;  a  railroad  sleeper 
of,  14,  256.  257. 

Cedar  of  Lebanon,  2,  200. 

Celandine.  7,  267. 

Celastrus,  10,  281. 

Celestial  phenomena,  undue  impor- 
tance attached  to,  12,  390,  391. 

Cellini,  Benvenuto,  2,  494.  495. 

CeUia  occidentalis,  6,  170^  9,  383;  ber- 
ries of,  8,  423. 

Cerastium,  8,  352,  353,  360,  366,  367. 

Cereus,  night-blooming,  8,  378,  379. 

ChaldsBans,  2,  35,  4,  469.  470. 

Chalmers,  Rev.  Thomas,  D.D.,3, 173; 
Life  of,  5,  58. 

Chamberlain  Lake  (Me.). 9, 494. 

Chamberlin,  Mr.,  of  Brattleboro, 
Vt.,  9,  73. 

Chamberlin,  Mr.,  of  Worcester.  2, 
225. 

"Chambers's  Journal,"  quoted,  12, 
377.  378. 

Channing.  William  EUery,  the  youn- 
ger, 3, 97. 98. 6,  16,7,214,  237.  263. 

319.  333.  395.  411,  414,  417-421. 
434.  454, 9,  343, 10,  9.  26.  30.  323, 
327,  336,  337. 11,  32  note.  108,  283, 
356,  393, 12,  9,  39.  71.  86, 109, 152, 
153,  167,  169,  184,  187,  394,  402, 
441,  449. 13,  14,  95.  165,  167,  175, 
177,  183.  197.  201.  285.  294.  306. 
337.  357.  14,  87  note,  95,  98,  294, 

320,  324,  325,  334;  acquires  the 
boat  built  by  T.,1, 136  note;  quota- 


tion from  his  ".Walden  Spring."  2, 
156;  a  moonlight  walk  with,  297; 
to  Boon's  Pond  with,  452;  trip  to 
Pelham's  Pond  with,  3, 72;  quoted 
by  Emerson,  85;  to  Long  Pond  with, 
92;  in  bantering  mood,  96;  his  note- 
«  book,  98,  99;  his  method  of  learn- 
ing, 108;  a  good  discipline  for,  118; 
to  Saw  Mill  Brook  with,  160, 161 ;  on 
the  study  of  lichens,  184;  his  respect 
for  McKean,  197;  a  remark  on  dogs 
and  pups,  226;  as  a  lecturer,  249, 
250;  on  Conantum  with,  356;  fame 
of,  399;  "riparial"  excursions  of, 
418;  watching  wild  geese  with,  434, 
435;  a  walk  in  a  storm  with,  440- 
446;  scene  of  his  ".Woodman,"  464; 
on  arches,  4,  152;  on  the  sky,  192; 
on  dogs,  294;  to  Billerica  with,  419; 
on  "angle  of  incidents,"  421;  to 
Second  Division  Brook  with,'5,  84; 
to  Bedford  with,  99;  to  Nobsoot 
with,  178;  accused  of  boorish  be- 
havior, 189,  190;  a  sail  to  Carlisle 
Bridge  with,  201;  the  "Hogepen" 
walk  with,  238;  meeting  with  a 
"lurkcr"  in  the  woods,  247,  248; 
to  Sudbury  meadows  with,  317;  to 
Sudbury  with,  379;  a  sail  with.  436; 
to  Fair  Haven  Hill  with,  490;  a 
moonlight  sail  with.  503-505;  his 
visit  to  Rome,  6,  61,  62;  incident 
of  cat  and  poker.  75;  on  idealistic 
vision,  129;  his  remark  to  Minott 
on  death.  152;  on  the  stars,  7,  22; 
looking  like  a  bandit,  23;  a  sail  to 
Ball's  Hill  with,  70;  up  bank  of  As- 
sabet  with,  82;  as  a  skater,  87;  to 
Pantry  Brook  with,  99;  out  in  the 
snow  with,  117;  his  tracks  in  snow, 
125;  collecting  specimens  of  lichens, 
187;  chasing  a  squirrel,  398;  to 
Cape  Cod  with,  431 ;  to  Tarbell  Hill 
with,  451;  visits  old  Hunt  house, 
457;  to  Conantum  with,  458;  sup- 
per with,  460;  visits  circus,  461; 
collecting  old  rails,  486;  to  Tarbell 
Swamp  Hill  with,  8,  406;  on  the 
partridge's  drumming,  9,  347;  to 
Owl-Nest  Swamp  with,  10,  17; 
round  Walden  with,  35;  telb  of  an 
amusing  advertisement.  174;  to 
Crackle  Swamp  with.  308;  to  Cle- 
matis Brook  with.  309.  312.  315; 
at  Clamshell  with,  11,  64;  his  ideas 
for  names  of  places.  103;  on  coun- 
try hfe,  120;   on  the  meadow-hen, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


366 


INDEX 


239;  to  Walden  and  Fair  Haven 
Hill  with,  352;  on  sap  snow,  13, 
13;  to  Lee's  Cliff  with,  28;  finding 
Indian  relics,  104,  105;  at  Little 
Goose  Pond  with,  128;  to  Saxon- 
ville  with,  265;  to  Flint's  Pond 
with,  13«  37;  following  a  fox-trail, 
100;  on  country  life,  181,  182;  on 
dress,  231;  on  Mt.  Monadnock  with, 
14,  12. 

Channing,  Rev.  William  Henry,  6, 17. 

Character,  divinity  of,  1,  290-292; 
constrains  events,  324;  suppleness 
of,  324;  its  relation  to  soul,  332; 
compared  to  talent,  352;  uncon- 
scious, 2%  163;  in  man  and  in  flow- 
ers, 3,  288;  importance  of,  6,  336. 
-      Charcoal,  ff,  50. 

^^  Charitable  institutions,  an  insult  to 
humanity,  3,  242. 

Charities,  in  a  city,  2,  342. 
'V  Charity,  makeshifts  for,  1,  212;   de- 
mands of.   348;     wasted   without 
personal  interest.  488;  Nature  ver- 
9U9,  2,  420;   rarity  of.  5,  438,  439. 

Charles  Miles  Run,  3«  378. 

Charles  River.  2,  295. 

Charlevoix,  Pierre  Francois  Xavier 
de.3,  350. 

Chase,  Mr.,  of  the  Town  School,  8, 
208. 
\Chastity,  love  of, «,  186. 

Chaucer,  1,  442;  breadth  of.  303;  del- 
icacy and  gentleness  of.  303.  304; 
repentance  of,  310;  delicacy  of, 
310,311;  poet  of  gardens,  322,  323; 
truthfulness  of,  323;  his  familiar 
way  of  speaking  of  God,  .326;  natu- 
ralness of ,  329;  quoted.  383. 

Checkerberries.  ff,  455.  9,  107,  114, 
315,  374,  375,  10,  301,  306.  See 
aUo  MitcheUa  repena. 

Cheerfulness,  1,  239. 

Chelmsford,  1,  90. 

Chelone.  9,  5. 

Chelonttra  serpentina.  See  Turtle, 
snapping. 

Chemistry,  applied  to  life,  10,  263. 

Cheney,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  tells  story  of 
Goodwin,  9,  272;  relates  history  of 
Inches  Woods,  14,  227-231. 

Chenopodium,  visited  by  birds,  4, 
468. 

Chenopodium  attmm,  10,  108. 

Chenopodium  hybridum,  9,  3. 

Cherokees,  1,  446. 

Cherry,  choke-.  <Se0  Choke-cherry. 


Cherry,  cultivated,  7,  67, 11, 130. 
Cherry,  sand,  2, 12, 4, 268. 8, 431. 432. 

13,  300, 14,  53. 
Cherry,  wild  black  or  rum,  5,  123,  7, 

49,  512. 14,  123;  flavor  of  fruit,  4, 
297;  destroyed  by  caterpillars,  6, 
304;  attractive  to  birds,  7,  455. 

Cherry,  wild  red,  4,  224. 

Cherry-bird,  2,  318,  4,  126.  6,  336; 
notes  of.  ff ,  217,  218, 6,  360.  378. 9, 
370.  10,  311,  12,  342;  eggs  of,  7, 
422-424;  called  "port-royal."  8, 
197;  and  cherry  trees,  12, 309. 

"Cheshire  Gazette."  quoted,  9,  77. 
78. 

Chesterfield  Mountain.  9,  70. 

Chestnut  {Caatanea  veeca),  3,  93,  7, 
172;  measurements  of  a  large 
stump  of,  4,  79;  flowers  of,  195; 
planting  of,  434.  435;  service  ren- 
dered to,  by  mice  and  squirrels,  ff,  9 ; 
dimensions  of  a  large,  69  441.  442; 
water-lo«;ed  rails  of,  7,  486,  487 ; 
beauty  of^O,  120;  leaves  of.  10, 69. 
70;  rings  of  growth  in  stumps  of, 
250;  locality  of.  detected  from  the 
planks.  417;  struck  by  lightning. 
441.  442;  highest  latitude  of,  11, 
53;  seedling,  14,  136.  137;  timber 
disappearing.  137;  regularity  of, 
215,  216;  branching  and  bark  of. 
245.    See  also  Wood-lots. 

Chestnuts,  13,  38.  39, 14,  113;  under 
leaves,  4,  427;  gathering,  462, 
10,  123-125;  a  little  pile  gathered 
appsurently  by  a  mouse,  4,  462; 
preserved  through  the  winter,  ff ,  30; 
time  for  gathering,  7,  514;  descrip- 
tion of,  9,  11^,  120,  10,  120-122; 
in  New  York  City,  9, 147;  in  snow, 
179;  meaning  of  the  name.  310; 
hidden  by  a  mouse,  10,  179.  180; 
time  of  falling,  12,  379;  squirrels 
gathering,  14,  137, 138. 

Chewink,  or  towhee  finch,  notes  of,  2, 
9,  10,  13, 17. 388,  4,  5.  ff,  119. 186, 
7,  377,  8,  361,  362;  practices  ven- 
triloquism, 2,  17;  wakening  each 
other,  388;  scratching  in  the 
leaves,  5,  124;  nest  of,  6,  317.  7, 
412.8,361,374.10,450.451;  flight 
of,  430;  on  mountain-tops.  460. 

Chickadee,  or  titmouse,  1,  70.  399, 3, 
62.  65,  6,  121,  122.  7,  105,  180,  8, 

50,  53,  12,  448,  14,  116;  a  forest 
bird,  2,  85;  inquisitive,  90;  asso- 
ciated with  hemlocks.  3,  91;    re- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


367 


minders  of  the  north,  138;  notes  of, 
345.  350,  468.  4,  17,  22,  41.  204, 
388,  6,  38.  76,  97,  7,  66,  262,  275, 
8,  28.  53.  196,  264, 9,  119, 10,  171, 
242,  316. 12,  386,  13,  87;  inquisi- 
tiveness  of,  4,  396,  482, 6,  3;  socia- 
bility of,  86,  110,  122;  on  a  su- 
mach.S,  153, 154;  on  nest,  364;  nest 
and  esgs  of ,  364;  scraping  acquain- 
tance, 9,  119;  winter  habits  of ,  152; 
good  cheer  of,  11,  290;  at  home  in 
the  snow,  320;  antics  of  a.  380, 381 ; 
companion  to  a  nuthatch,  391;  a 
wood-bird,  12,  453;  roosting-nlace 
of,  in  a  birch,  13, 20;  and  pine  seed , 
95;  and  hemlock  sc^.  97. 

Chickweed  {Stellaria  media),  3,  469, 
4,  487. «,  32,  33,  36,  367. 

Child,  the,  1,  213;  playing  with  nat- 
ural forces.  10,  170. 
.   Child.  Mr.,  of  Concord.  2,  19. 
\  Childhood,  dreams  of,  1,  217. 

Children,  1,  94;  of  the  poor,  2,  117; 
senses  of.  291;  importance  of  ber- 
ries to,  308;  city-bred,  342;  an  in- 
nocent child,  3,  150;  observant, 
364;  their  love  of  noise,  4,  85,  86; 
reminders  of  God,  12,  171;  obedi- 
ence in,  298,  299;  precocious,  14, 
217. 

Chiloe,  surf  on  coast  of.  2,  261. 

Chimaphila.  See  Wintergreen,  um- 
beUed. 

Chimneys,  old  stone,  8,  388;  an  old 
chimney  with  an  inscription,  9, 
256-261. 

China,  hospitality  in,  4, 15. 

Chinese,  use  of  magnet  by,  2,  168;  a 
Chinese  funeral,  3,  194. 

Chinese  inscriptions,  4,  205. 

Chinese  novel,  a,  11,  65,  66,  81. 

Chinquapin,  catkins  of.  6,  278. 

Chiogenea  hiajndula,  4,  302, 11,  43. 

Chiogenes  tea,  11,  31. 

Chip-bird.  See  Sparrow,  chipping. 

Chipmunk.  See  Squirrel,  striped. 

Chivin,  8,  359. 

Choke-berry  (Pyrua  arbutifolia),  buds 
of,  4,  71,  7,  332:  berries  of,  4,  281, 
329.  330, 9.  51, 11,  97. 

Choke-cherries.  5,  345,  387, 8,  446. 

Choke-cherry,  6,  290. 

Cholmondeley,  Thomas,  presents  T. 

with  Indian  books,  8,  36;  visits  T., 

^      11,  402  and  note. 

^^Christ,  the  world's  attitude  toward,  3, 

119;  supposititious  appearance  of , 


in  modem  times,  12,  407;  discus- 
sion regarding  foresight  of.  14, 291, 
292. 

Christian,  the  modern,  12, 419. 

Christianity,  the  laws  of,  3,  263;   re-         y 
spectable,  11,  357;  not  a  matter  of 
education,  13,  15. 

Christians,  compared  with  Mahome-       /< 
tans,  3,  20,21. 

Chrysosplenium,  10,  32  and  note. 

Chub,  2,  16. 

Church,  the,  reraus  out-of-doors,  1,63; 
a  hospital,  309;  and  slavery,  2, 178; 
a  rotten  institution,  400;  police 
power  of,  3, 120;  funerals  and,  102; 
the  dust  of  truth  in,  335;  under- 
mining of,  9,  188;  the  "true,"  10, 
233;  a  baby-house,  11,  324;  hypo- 
crisy and  timidity  of,  324,  325;  ex- 
communicating Christ,  12,  404. 

Churchgoing.  4,  467. 

Cicada,  Anacreon's  ode  to  the,  1, 66. 
See  also  Harvest-fly. 

CiciUa  bulbifera,  5,  338. 

Cicuta  maculata,  5,  346,  10,  18.  12, 
364. 

Cider-drinker,  a.  4,  463. 

Cinnamon  stone,  6,  48. 

Cinquefoil,  common,  5,  154,  229, 10, 
415. 

Cinquefoil,  Norway,  2,  430,  431. 

Cinquefoil,  silvery,  4, 80.5, 157,9, 18. 

Cinquefoil,  three-toothed,  10, 457, 11, 
18. 

Circaea,  8,  406. 

Cvrccea  alpina,  4,  196,  219, 8,  466. 

Circulation,  in  plants,  2,  121,  122. 

Circumstances,  1,  77. 

Cirsium  horridulum,  ff,  346. 

Cirstum  lanceolatum,  8,  443. 

Cirsium  muticum,  4,  355. 

Cistnda  Blandingii.  See  Tortoise, 
Blanding's. 

Cistus,  or  frostweed,  4,  88,  90,  110, 5, 
200,  7,  518;  frost-crystals  on.  4, 
428,  5,  483,  484;  untouched  by 
cows,  4,  429;  effect  of  frost  on,  7, 
518,8,10,11,316,317. 

Cities,  compared  to  sWamp^s.  2,  47; 
a  city  built  on  the  site  of  a  more 
ancient  city,  6,  15;  maritime,  25, 
26. 

Citizen,  of  the  world,  1,  350.  351.      -' 

City,  the,  not  now  a  ninth-day  town, 
6,  HI,  112. 

Civilization,  among  brutes,  1,  396; 
progress  of,  3,  321,  322;  and  archi- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


368 


INDEX 


tecture,  4, 153;  its  effect  on  fish,  9, 
327;  levelling  tendency  of,  U,  78; 
its  effect  on  the  forests,  14,  229;  the 
division  of  labor  entailed  by,  295. 

Cladonia.  See  Lichen,  cladonia,  and 
Lichen,  reindeer. 

Clam,  fresh-water,  4,  178,  215,  6,  46, 
376, 6, 383, 406, 7, 68, 214, 216, 295, 
488,  8,  258, 113,  274;  furrows  made 
by.  4,  213, 6,  461,  7,  466;  moving, 
4,  213,  5,  495;  rising  to  shore,  6, 
327;  description  of  a  new  kind  of, 
459;  moving  into  deep  water,  7, 
463;  eels  said  to  "gender"  into,  10, 
399,  429;  as  a  food,  11,  375;  mov- 
ing toward  middle  of  river,  13,  270, 
271. 

Clams,  2,  355-359;  their  method  of 
taking  food,  4, 178;  various  species 
of,  7,  436;  fed  to  pigs,  439;  the 
"worm"  in,  10,  247. 

Clamshell  field,  the,  S,  292. 

Clamshells,  fresh-water,  6,  7,  8,  7,  7, 
471.  8,  21;  colors  of,  4,  58,  6,  7,  8, 
7,  352, 8, 297, 343;  heaps  of,  7, 447; 
floating,  12^  283. 

Clarionet,  10,  296,  297. 

Clark,  Alvan,6,  167. 

Clark,  Brooks,  10, 109, 110,  167. 

Clark,  D.,  7,  224. 

Clark,  D.  B.,  12,  200. 

Clark's  Island,  visits  to,  2, 349-363, 9, 
415-419. 

Claudian,  1,  260. 

Clay,  used  for  mortar,  9,  259,  263, 
278. 
^Cleanliness,  3,  246. 

Clematis,  or  virgin's-bower,  feathery 
fruit  of,  2,  446, 6,  395, 11,  292,  293. 

Clematis  Brook,  2,  411. 

Clematis  Pond,  4,  208. 

Clergy,  the,  1,  240. 

Clergymen,  limitations  of,  9,  283, 284. 

Clethra  cUnifolia,  season  of,  4,  268,  9, 
9. 13,  44. 

"  Cliffs,"  verse,  1,  51. 

Climate,  6,  130;  our  adaptation  to 
our,  9,  343. 

Clinton,  mills  at,  2, 134-136. 

Clintonia  borealis,  4,  95.  5,  218,  219, 
222,  329,  354,9,  29, 10,  148. 

Clock,  Minott's  old,  10,  54,  59. 

Clothes,  old,  1,  418.  419. 

Clothing,  convention  regarding.  4, 225. 

Clouds,  in  June,  1,  142;  grandeur  of, 
171;  suggesting  lines  of  Milton, 
183r   art-galleries  in  the,  2,  258; 


a  melon-rind  arrangement  of,  473, 
474,3, 148, 312, 8, 117, 13, 23;  uni- 
formity in  shapes  of,  2,  297;  at  and 
after  sunset,  378;  their  war  with 
the  moon,  383,  384;  the  forces  of 
the  west,  484;  making  a  heaven 
below,  3,  66;  crimson,  155.  156;  a 
cloud  like  fire,  176. 177;  spun  from 
rainbows,  178;  scenery  in  the,  181; 
mother-o'-pearl,  186;  mountains, 
189;  texture  of,  202;  a  new  dis- 
position of,  235;  need  of,  in  the  sky, 
272;  prows  of  vessels  in,  3, 333, 334; 
sbbdows  and  motion  of,  387;  a 
battalion  of,  389;  a  trembling  in 
sky  caused  by,  468;  drama  of 
moon  and,  4,  78;  description  of, 
106;  thund^-clouds  likened  to 
fireflies,  129;  philosophy  of,  138. 
139;  make  sport  of  the  moon,  145; 
reflections  from,  223;  in  after- 
glow, 240;  at  sunset,  248-250;  drift- 
ing and  downy,  5,  145;  attendant 
on  sun  at  rising,  258;  in  the  mind, 
305;  a  celestial  Sahara,  306;  tran- 
siency of,  498,  499;  fleecy,  520;  a 
thunder-cloud,  7,  16, 17;  at  sunset 
at  Clamshell  Reach,  57;  mack«^ 
sky,  125, 11,  410,  411;  lining  of,  7, 
231;  over  the  water,  307;  shadows 
of,  404, 10,  474,  475;  sketch  of,  9, 
338;  a  storm-cloud,  385-387;  mea- 
suring distance  of,  10,  264;  thun- 
der-clouds likened  to  a  flower,  414; 
415;  above  the,  11,  30;  scenes  on 
earth  corresponding  to,  295;  snow 
from  a  single  cloud,  354;  sunmier 
and  winter,  compared,  12, 146,  13, 
109;  thunder-cloud  likened  to  a 
steamer,  12,  306;  bic^raphy  of  a 
cloud,  307;  bows  and  arrows  in,  13, 
61 ,  62;  in  long  bars,  94;  asbestos- 
like wisps,  109,  110;  ripple-marks, 
110;  web-like,  160, 161;  like  round- 
topped  hills,  271;  seen  from  Mt. 
Monadnock.  14,  46-48. 

Clover,  rabbit's,  12,  303. 

aover,  red,  2,  269,  286;  a  field  of,  5, 
255 

Clover,  white.  2,  271,  272. 8,  311. 

Club-moss.   See  Lycopodium. 

Coal,  in  Pennsylvania,  2, 463. 

Coal-pit,  an  old,  2,  95. 

Coarseness,  inexcusability  of,  1,  299. 

Coat,   T.'s   new,   6,    69,   70;     of   a 
drowned  man,  9,.  442. 

Coats-of-arms,  proposed,  2, 345, 433. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


Oobb,  of  Eastham,  9;  436.  437. 

Ck>bb,  Ebenezer,  2,  364. 

Cobwebs,  on  the  grass,  2,  75,  6,  234. 
12,  265,  266;  geometry  of,  4,  199, 
289,  6,  260;  covered  with  frost,  7, 
294;  draperies  of,  11,  224,  225. 363. 
See  also  Gossamer. 

Cochituate  Pond,  described,  3, 94, 95; 
length  of,  10,  13. 

Ck)cks,  crowing  of,  1,  202,  227, 2,  301, 
334,  384,  7,  106,  179,  8,  52,  426, 9, 
245, 10, 227;  native  to  earth,  4, 110; 
compared  with  men,  5,  216;  a  cook 
catches  a  mouse,  9, 154, 155;  sensi- 
tive to  weather,  10,  166;  a  young 
cock,  11,  190,  191. 

Cocoons,  2,  125, 6,  86,  185, 6,  19,  73, 
7,  103,  8,  418,  9,  220,  221;  cun- 
ning evinced  in  building  of,  6,  23; 
expressions  of  a  Universal  Intelli- 
V     gence,  131,  132. 

Cod,  7,  444. 

Cod-fishing,  7,  439. 

Coe,  Mr.,  of  Bangor,  9,  487. 

Coffee,  use  of,  4,  417. 

Cohasset,  the  shore  at,  2,  347-349. 

Cohush,  berries  of,  2,  434,  4,  285,  9, 
51,  498, 10,  8. 

Cohush  Swamp,  2,  434;    in  autunm, 
3,16. 
M>)incidences,  in  nature,  3,  438. 

Coins,  antique,  12,  38. 

Cold,  effects  of,  in  Concord,  7«  173; 
prevents  Sabbath-school,  9»  225; 
very  cold  weather,  230-232;  given 
man  for  his  amusement,  12,  66. 

Cold  Friday,  the,  7,  175.9,  213,  230. 

Coleridge,  Samuel  Taylor,  quoted,  1, 
104.  175,  217;  Chahners  on.  3, 
173. 

Color,  expensive,  3,  301;  symbolism 
'ol,  11,  243;  insignificant  impor- 
tance of,  to  naturalist,  14,  342, 
343. 

Coloration,  protective.  3, 463, 11, 158- 
160. 

Colors,  distinguishing,  3,  245;  of  the 
soil,  248;  of  the  world,  462;  of 
flowers  in  midsummer,  5,  164;  in 
nature,  presented  in  small  doses, 
212;  characteristic  of  November, 
462;  contrasting  with  snow,  7, 
127;  of  quadrupeds,  205.  206;  of 
the  earth  in  December,  8,  69;  in  oil 
on  water,  343;  teaching  of,  by 
fungi,  9,  50,  51;  prevailing  among 
plants,  10,  98;  of  the  seasons,  128, 


129;   infinite  variety  of,  in  leaves, 

11,  240;  possible  reasons  for,  in  na- 
ture, 12,  24,  25;  affected  by  angles 
of  vision,  31;  of  earth,  like  leopard- 
spots,  97;  perception  of,  affected 
by  prejudice,  102;  seen  in  a  winter 
walk.  13,  143. 

Colt,  precociousness  of  a.  9,  419,  420. 

Colton.  Walter,  quoted.  2,  73. 

Coluber  ptinctatuB,  12,  186. 

Columbine,  3,  473,  4,  57.  5,  118,  6, 
189,  205,  7,  293,  295,  374,  519. 

Columbus,  2,  11. 

Columella,  on  ninth-day  towns,  6, 1 1 1 ; 
on  changes  of  climate,  125;  on  ma- 
nure, 8.  52;  on  moderation  in  buy- 
ing land,  56,  57;  optimism  of,  245. 

Comarum  pcdustre,  4,  169. 

"Come,  let's  roam  the  breezy  pas- 
tures," verse,  1,  86. 

Comets,  ff,  399, 11,  180, 191, 199. 

Common,  the  Concord,  2,  428,  429. 

Commonplace-books,  T.'s,  3, 11. 

Companion,  essential  qualities  of  a 
good,  9,  216;  for  a  walk,  U,  296, 
297. 

Compensation,  1,  60;  law  of,  in  na- 
ture, 2,  12. 

Compliments,  obscure  men  to  each 
other,  4,  46,  47. 

Composition,  revision  of, 6, 146;  criti- 
cism of,  100.  See  aleo  Writing. 

Conant,  Mr.,  of  Acton,  10,  87. 

Conant,  Ebenezer,  7,  197. 9,  49.  393, 

12,  212;  on  Concord  winters,  8, 
177. 

Conant's  Grove.  3,  33. 

Conantum,  2, 64;  contemplated  pur- 
chase of,  4.39. 

Conantum  Cliff,  view  from,  3, 15, 16. 

Conantum  house*  10,  364,  365;  ex- 
ploring the  cellar  of,  13,  247-249. 

Conantum  Swamp,  list  of  trees  in,  3, 
129. 

Concert,  a.  10,  296.  297. 

Concord,  Tyrolese  in,  1,  192;  as  in- 
spiration for  poem,  282;  Indian  rel- 
ics of,  337,  338;  farmers'  homes  in, 
389;  sportsmen  of,  421,  422;  anti- 
quity realized  in,  425;  beauty  of, 
2,  26;  T.'s  love  of,  46;  favors  the 
walker,  52;  slavery  and,  175-178; 
solitude  in.  437;  neglect  of  public 
education  in,  3,  24-26;  educational 
methods  of,  4,  323-325;  old  place- 
names  of,  5,  222;  uninhabited 
tracts  in,  240;  flooded  meadows  of, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


370 


INDEX 


6,  171;  an  old  picture  of,  7»  515- 
517;  ver9U9  Paris,  8«  204;  a  snowy 
place,  228,  229;  the  countrymen 
of, 9, 151;  oldest  engraving  in,  261; 
an  old  engraving  of,  502;  sketch 
of  jail,  10, 279;  contentment  in,  11, 
275;  ••  brand-marke  "  of,  12,  287. 

Concord  Fight,  2, 19. 3,  87;  the  day 
of,  412;  relics  of,  9,  314;  an  old 
engraving  of,  502. 

Concord  (N.  H.),  1,  91. 

Concord  River  or  Musketaquid,  from 
Ball's  Hill  to  Billerica  meeting- 
bouse,  1,  90;  its  value  to  Concord, 
2,  321;  ethereal  appearance  of  the 
reach  between  Bedford  and  Car- 
lisle, 3, 48;  a  tender  place  in  Nature, 
4,  184;  character  of,  188,  189,  7, 
168,  169;  beauty  of,  5,  292;  color 
of  ice  of,  6,  81;  body  of  a  man 
found  in,  195;  upper  reaches  of, 
341;  bank  of,  in  most  interesting 
condition,  420-422;  map  of  Pel- 
ham  Pond  r^on,  7,  156;  belching 
sound  of  ice  on,  161;  names  of 
localities  on  south  branch  of,  210; 
places  slowest  to  freeze  in,  8«  70; 
swiftness  of,  at  high  water,  9,  6; 
a  proposed  high-water  record  for, 
21;  compared  with  ^e  Connec- 
ticut, 65;  fall  of,  compared  with 
fall  of  the  Nashua,  254;  a  dead 
stream  in  more  than  one  sense,  327; 
particularly  suitable  for  boating 
and  botanizing,  11,  77;  varied 
lights  of,  84,  85;  its  banks  in 
prime,  117;  water-line  of,  182; 
rise  of,  recorded  by  ice  belt,  449; 
a  study  of  the  physiography  of.  12, 
219  and  note;  soundings  of,  219- 
223,  236.  237,  275,  276;  course  of 
225.  226,  230,  248,  254,  255,  268- 
270,  276;  its  course  as  affected  by 
the  transplanted  meadow-crust, 
227-229.  233,  275;  bottom  of.  232, 
237. 262, 263,  272;  character  of  the 
river  and  its  shores  at  and  near  the 
Falls.  249-152;  rise  and  fall  of,  254. 
273,  13,  371;  presence  of  weeds  in, 
12, 255. 275, 276;  fall  of  its  bed.  256, 

257,  276;  rapidity  of  current   of. 

258.  263,  264,  273,  274,  277;  pecu- 
liar featuies  of,  267;  distance  cov- 
ered on.  in  boating,  by  T.,  271; 
open  places  in  winter,  13,  56-63; 
vapor  over,  in  winter,  57,  59;  arc- 
tic scenery  on,  119-121;  effect  of 


rainfall  on,  371;  temperatures  of, 

393-395;  mouth  of,  14,  76. 
Conferva,  ff,  4. 7,  245, 9,  270. 
Conformity,  1,  232.  | 

Confucius,  1, 371;  quoted, 2, 192. 
Congress,  speeches  in,  on  Nebraska 

Bill,  6, 129;  ale-house  odor  of ,  129.       ' 
Connecticut  River,  9,  65,  66. 
Connecticut  Valley,  compared  with 

the  Concord,  9,  80. 
Conscience,  alertness  of,  1,  257;    iis 

superiority  to  law,  334,  335. 
Consciousness,  1,  53.  54. 
Conservatist,  the,  2,  468. 
Constitutionality,  6,  362. 
Convallaria  bifolia.     See  Solomon's- 

seal,  two-leaved. 
Conventionality,  2,  291,  465. 
Conversation,  artificial,  3,  218. 
Conway  (N.  H.),  1,  91, 11,  12,  13. 
Conway,    Rev.    Moncure   D.,   walks 

with,  5,  337  and  note,  377;  quoted, 

358  note. 
Coombs,  of  Concord,  partridge-shoot- 
ing, 8, 191. 
Coombs,    pigeon-catching,    12,  326, 

337;    hawks  shot  by,  327;    a  talk 

with,  441. 
Coon.  See  Raccoon. 
Cooper,  Susan  Fenimore,  on  loons,  4, 

380. 
Codperation.  1,  489. 
Coos  Falls,  1,«1. 

Coot  {FuLica  Americana),  8,  307,  308. 
Coot,  white-winged,  3,  127. 
Coral,  found  in  Concord,  13, 187. 
CoraUorhiza  muUifiora,  4,  305. 
Corduroy,  for  wearing,  9,  369. 
Coreopsis,  6,  423. 
Coreopsis,  rose-flowered,  ff,  384. 
Cormorant,  2,  244. 
Com,  Indian,  scent  of  tassels  of,  2, 

302;  growth  of,  6, 303;  boiled,  sokl 

on  Boston  streets,  11,  131;  kernels 

found  in  the  woods,  312,  313. 
Corn,  popped,  1,  311. 
Corn-cobs,  ashes  of,  2,  91. 
Corn-cockle,  7,  443,  8,  386. 
Corn-fields,  Indian,  2,  500,  10,  11, 

175. 
Corn-husks,  10,  178. 
Corn-stalks,  stacks  of,  2«  504. 
Cornel,   alternate-leaved   (Comua  al- 

temifolia),  6,  416.  8,  442.  10.  37; 

berries  of,  4,  271,  ff,  398;   buds  of, 

482. 
Cornel,    dwarf,  or   bunchberry    (C 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


371 


CetnadennB),  4,  81.  ff,  102. 11,  205; 

in  winter.  322,  323. 
Cornel,  panicled    (C  paniculata),  5, 

419,  7,  58. 9, 30:  berries  of.  30.  60; 

effect  of  frost  on.  13,  315. 
Gomel,  river,  or  red  osier,  berries  of, 

4,  323. 
Cornel,  round-leaved  (C.  circtnato),  4, 

353,  10,  24.  26;    berries  of,    11, 

129. 
Cornel,  silky  (C.  8encea),8, 13,9, 415; 

berries  of.  4,  318, 7,  3.  4, 9,  33. 12, 

316;  autumn  color  of.  7,  52. 9,  48; 

effect  of  frost  on.  12,  315. 
Cornels.  leafing  of.  6,  282.  See  also 

Comus  florida. 
Comer  road,  the,  2,  339. 5,  108. 
Comua  florida,  6,  192.  7,  387,  9,  137, 

10,422,11,288;  in  Connecticut  and 

New  York,  10,  442. 
Corydalis  glauca,  5,  225, 9,  76,  87,  88, 

373. 
Cotton,  in  ginsham-mills.  2, 134.  135. 
Cotton,  Mrs.,  the  Plymouth  oracle,  9, 

419. 
Cotton-grass,  Virginian,  4,  386. 
Cougar,  9,  71-74,  78,  100,  101,  133. 

134. 
Coultas.  quoted  on  trees.  14, 120. 
"  Counterparts,  or  The  Cross  of  Love." 

11,  451. 
Country  life,  celebrated,  9, 323;  value 

of,  11,  78;  Austin's  taste  of,   13, 

168. 
Courage,     three-o'clock-in-the-morn- 

ing,  1, 462;  alone  prolongs  life,  481 , 

482;   moral,  among  New  England- 

ers,  11,  326.  327. 
^  Cousin  Charles.  See  Dunbar.  Charles. 
Coward,  the.  analogies  of,  1,  79;  and 

sphere  music,  104. 
Cowardice,  1,  97-99. 
Cow-bell,  1,  243:  music  of,  5,  293. 
Cowbird,  or  cow  blackbird,  or  cow 

troopial,  2,  309.  6,  367.  6,  342.  11, 

146,  205;  eggs  of,  7,  414,  419,  420; 

about  cows.  453.  8,  410. 
Cow-parsnip,  in  White  Mountains,  11, 

28. 
Cowslip  iCaUha  palustris)  ,3^  467, 468, 

4,  16,  17,  53,  6,  98,  105,  7,  273,  8, 

239,  240,  260,  276, 13, 17;  a  flower- 
fire,  3,  479,  480;   retirement  of,  9, 

302. 
Cow-wheat,  2,  415. 
Cows,  a  cow  swimming  the  river,  2, 18, 

19;  in  pasture,  21 ,  37;  habits  of,  61 ; 


frightened,  99;  frisking,  106;  pio- 
turesqueness  of,  311;  eating  kelp, 
359;  attracted  by  greenness.  3,  7, 
8;  good  behavior  of,  4,  166;  a  cow 
injured  in  calving,  199;  hardihood 
of,  254;  remains  of  burned,  6,  11; 
lowing  of,  23;  manner  of  feeding, 
159,  312;  peculiar  attitude  of  a 
cow,  6, 434;  a  cow  and  cowbirds,  7, 
453;  a  dangerous  cow,  8,  93,  94; 
food  and  drink  of,  341;  track  of, 
going  to  water,  415;  study  of,  9, 
104;  droppings  of,  10, 160, 11,  300; 
mourning  their  dead,  10,  168; 
breath  of,  inhaled  by  an  infant,  213; 
agency  of,  in  dispersing  seeds,  448; 
affected  by  cardinal-flower,  11, 134. 

f>ab,  fiddler,  7,  480. 

Crab,  horseshoe,  9,  418. 

Crab-apple,  2,  211. 

Crab-grass,  13,  353,  354. 

Crabs,  3,  358. 

Crackling  sounds,  6,  140. 

Crafts,  3,  491,  492. 

Cranberries.  3,  97,  5,  356, 6,  396;  a 
new  kind  detected  by  a  farmer,  3, 
105;  in  spring,  4,  34,  36;  washed 
ashore,  5,  464;  a  suggestion  for 
preservation  of,  508;  frost-bitten, 
511;  a  poor  speculation  in,  512; 
best  mode  of  gathering,  514;  pear- 
shaped,  7,  15;  on  Nantucket,  95; 
spoiled  by  flood,  9,  97. 

Cranberry,  common,  crimson  of.  7, 
358;  a  cranberry-patch  on  the  Cape, 
9,  432. 

Cranberry,  mountain  {Vaccinium 
ViHs-ldoea),  on  Mt.  Monadnock,  10, 
457, 14, 14, 15;  gathering  and  stew- 
ing the  berries  of.  14.  15. 

Cranberry,  small  {Vaxxinium  Oxy- 
C0CCU8),  6,  468,  9,  35-41,  44,  404, 
405, 13,  396,  397;  in  Maine,  9,  501, 
502. 

Crane,  7,  136. 

"Crania  Americana,"  4,  206. 

Craniometry.  4,  146,  147. 

Cratsegus.  See  Thorn. 

Creed,  of  hypochondriac,  1,  309. 

Creeds,  1,  58. 

Creek  Pond,  6,  112,  113. 

Creel,  a  willow.  10,  312,  313. 

Creeper,  exploring  the  trees,  13,  295. 

Creeper,  black  and  white,  4,  10,  6, 
251,  7,  335,  372.  379,  380,  405,  9, 
392;  song  of,  7,  372,  380,  405,  8, 
314, 10,  398, 13,  392. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


872 


INDEX 


Creeper,  brown,  6,  122,  8,  54, 9,  230, 
12,463. 

"Crescent  and  the  Cross,  The,"  1, 375, 
376. 

Caress,  water,  3,  128, 10,  453, 13,  17, 
13, 165. 

Cricket,  mole.  7,  454.  456,  462,  463; 
creak  of.  11,  95, 12,  293. 

Crickets,  song  of,  1,  57,  2,  93,  254, 
370.  378,  475,  479.  480,  482,  483.3, 
39,  4,  109,  110.  264.  278,  6,  158, 
340,  356,  357,6,  290,  291,  327,  419, 
439, 7,  35,  374,  8,  361,  372, 9,  403, 
12, 192;  ushering  in  the  evening  of 
the  year,  1,  109;  at  noon,  2,  276; 
hearing  of  the  sound  of,  a  test  of 
serenity,  291;  note  of,  the  funda- 
mental sound,  306;  joy  in  song  of, 
385;  elusivenees  of,  406;  habits  of, 
408,  409;  capture  of  a  cricket,  421, 
422;  want  of  a  poem  on  the,  447; 
under  a  stone,  3,  128;  wise  among 
singers,  4, 20;  encourage  travellers, 
114;  importers  of  thought,  5,  194; 
reproof  administered  by,  379;  theme 
of,  498;  Josselyn's  view  of,  6,  108; 
Harris  on,  7,  463;  on  the  qui  vive, 
498;  suggestive  melancholy  of  song 
of.  9,  8;  a  rare  kind  of,  10, 12;  on 
guard  against  a  fish,  44,  45;  stu- 
pidity of,  45;  boring  in  a  fungus, 
99;  manner  of  creaking,  107,  108; 
at  the  mouths  of  their  burrows,  107; 
disappearing  strain  of  the,  11,  310; 
eating  an  apple,  12,  362. 
■  Crime,  Iroquois  method  of  suppress- 
ing. 6, 51.  « 

Critchicrotches,  6,  307,  13,  309;  in 
muskrat's  nest,  4,  239. 

Criticism,  justification  of,  1,  447;  of 
manuscripts,  6,  190. 

Crops,  of  thoughts,  2,  442;  the  best 
kind  of,  10,  93,  94;  beauty  of,  13, 
414,  415. 

Crossbills,  12,  149,  13,  245,  246. 

Crotalaria,  rattling  pods  of,  9,  99, 11, 
193.   See  alto  Rattle-pod. 

Crotched  Mountain,  1,  440. 

Crow,  6,  154, 7,  493, 8, 110,  135,  214, 
218,  13,  70,  159,  160,  175;  a  large 
flock,  3,  88;  compelled  to  boldness, 
219;  a  peculiarity  of,  6,  65;  local- 
ity of  nests  betrayed  by,  243;  pur- 
sued by  other  birds,  291;  migrat- 
ing, 470;  peculiar  conduct  of,  7, 
111;  cawing  of.  112,  113,  179,  13, 
100,  115;   tracks  of,  7,  142,  8,  129, 


137,  156,  159,  11,  407,  408,  411. 
412;  diving  at  a  hawk,  7,  282;  near 
houses,  297;  pursued  by  a  hawk, 
312;  nest  of,  358,  359,  362, 10,  498; 
pestering  a  hawk,  7,  365;  detected 
by  its  shadow,  370,  371;  as  a  scare- 
crow, 410;  sentinels  with  flocks,  8, 
35;  like  a  bird  of  ill  omen,  50;  acKl 
pickerel-bait,  129;  contents  of 
droppings  of,  132,  133;  caught  in 
mink-traps,  168,  230;  buffeting  a 
large  bird,  254,  255;  along  the 
water's  edge,  9,  333;  Wyman  and 
his,  10,  52,  53;  fish  hawk  and.  392, 
393;  excited  by  a  hen-hawk,  398; 
pestering  an  owl,  438;  evidence 
against,  482;  voice  of,  a  New  Eng- 
land sound,  12,  11,  12;  a  black  ap- 
parition, 13,  66;  traces  of  a  feast 
in  the  snow,  76;  driving  a  fox,  88; 
food  of,  126;  on  a  cake  of  ice,  179; 
pursuing  a  hen-hawk,  291;  in  a 
flock  in  June,  326;  and  a  boy's 
dart,  14,  102;  chasing  two  marsh 
hawks,  107;  flying  in  a  strong 
wind,  266,  267;  foraging  for  food, 
295,  296;  stomach  of,  examined, 
309,  310. 

Crowds,  vermin  generated  by,  13, 272. 

Crowfoot,  3,  476. 4,  20, 6, 107. 6, 189, 
195.  216;  blossom-bud  of.  4,  460; 
radical  leaves  of,  6,  157.  See  aUo 
Buttercups  and  Ranuncidus. 

Crystals,  the  law  of,  1,  195. 

Cuckoo,  notes  of,  4,  205,  10,  8.  9; 
nest  and  eggs  of,  5, 275, 276, 306.8^ 
366,  373;  grace  of,  6,  399;  robbing 
nests,  9,  289. 

Cuckoo,  St.  Domingo,  6,  263. 

Cucumber-root.  See  M edeola. 

Cudweed,  purplish,  3,  473,  474. 

Cudworth,  Dr.  Ralph,  1,  150,  151,  2, 
150. 

Cultivation,  superficiality  of,  12,  31, 
32. 

Culture,  repulsiveness  of,  4,  154. 

Cuming,  Squire,  of  Concord,  10,  285. 

Cumming,  R.  Gordon,  quoted,  2, 130- 
133.       , 

Cummings,  Sally,  9, 102, 10, 123, 124, 
215. 

"Cupid  Wounded,"  translation  from 
Anacreon,  1,  70. 

Curculio,  mark  of,  on  plums,  9,  471. 

Currant,  roots  of,  12,  142. 

Currant,  fetid.  10,  476. 

Custom,  immemorial,  1,  263. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


373 


Cut-grass,  peculiar  maimer  of  growth 

of  the,  6,  481. 
Cutler,  Manasseh,  quoted,  14,  224, 

232. 
Cuvier,  6,  178. 
Cyanometer.  ff,  117,  121. 
Cycnus,  brother  of  Phaeton,  2,  145. 
Cylinder,  4,  27.  28. 
Cymbidium,  9,  475,  476. 
Cynips  confluens,  14,  163. 
Cytwglosawn  officinale,  9,  3. 
Cypenu  derUaiua,  11, 124, 113, 260, 261. 
Cyperua  fUiculmia,  11,  123. 
Cyperua  phymatodes,  11,  124. 
Cyperua  atrigoaua,  11,  124. 

Daguerreotype,  the,  1,  189. 

Dams,  in  streams,  3,  459;   the  Bille- 

rica  dam  controversy,  12,  211-213. 
Dana,  Richard  Henry,  Jr.,  7,  452. 
Dandelion,  3,   481,  5,    113;     vernal 

scent  of,  4,  56;  an  emphatic  flower, 

6,  238;   gone  to  seed,  10,  408. 
Dandehon,  autumnal,  7, 48.9, 81, 12, 

342. 
Dandy,  track  of  a,  7,  202. 
Dangle-berry,  4,  304,  6,  375,  400, 14, 

298. 
Daniel,  Samuel,  1,  466,  467. 
Dante,  1,  218,  310. 
Danthonia  apiecUa,  11,  161. 
Danton,  1,  429. 
V     Darwin,  Charles,  his  "Voyage  of  a 
^       Naturalist     round      the     World" 

quoted,  2,  228,  240-248,  261-264. 
Datura   Stramonium,  or  Jamestown- 
weed,  2, 219,  220,  343,  345, 11, 181, 

12,  341. 
Davis,  Concord  postmaster,  10,  17. 
Davis,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  his  museum, 

2,  87,  88. 
Davis,  Abel,  talking  to  himself,  10, 

180. 
Davis,  Charles,  8,  126;  his  great  elm. 

4, 78,8, 116, 117. 125-127, 130-132, 

142-146,  206. 
Davis,  Mrs.  Charles,  8,  126. 
Dawn.  4,  179-181;    ethereal  blue,  2, 

387;   its  revival  of  spring,  4,  180. 
Day,  compared  with  night,  2,  327. 
De  Kay,  James  E.,  quoted,  4,  82,  7, 

463,  464,  485.  9,  133,  485, 10,  443, 

444. 
De  Quincey,  Thomas,  3,  108,  5,  254; 

a  fault  in  his  style,  2, 41 8. 419;  lacks 

moderation,  ^2;    quoted,  4,  486; 

his  Essays,  5,  41. 


"Dead  Men's  Graves,"  a  natural  phe- 
nomenon, 9,  291. 

Deafness,  3,  116. 

Death,  a  pause  in  the  music,  1,  302;  / 
inspiration  of,  321;  transiency  of, 
327,  328;  triviality  of,  2,  43;  the 
effect  on  friendship,  130;  indiffer- 
ence toward,  attained  by  int^rity, 
4,  157;  attack  of,  on  divine  facul- 
ties, 6,  80;  tragedy  in,  8,  457;  re- 
flection on  "last  words,"  9,  151; 
compared  with  life,  10,  76;  not 
universal,  150;  aspects  of.  309; 
matter  not  subject  to,  11,  435;  of 
friends,  an  attack  on  one's  own  life, 
438;  usually  only  "deliquescence," 
12,  437.  438. 

".Death  cannot  come  too  soon,"  verse,    ^ 
1,  249. 

Debauchee,  the,  at  odds  with  nature, 
4,  195. 

Decay,  beauty  in,  4,  91.  7,  495,  496. 

Decodon.    See  Loosestrife,  swamp. 

Deeds,  memorabj^.  12,  339. 

Deep  Cut.  2,  70. 

Deer,  2,  61.  3,  306,  7,  178;  William 
Wood  OD,7,  135;  hunting,  14,  317. 

Deformity.  1,  57. 

Degerando,  Joseph  Marie,  quoted,  1, 
440. 

Democritus,  1,  150. 

Derby.  Lieutenant,  of  Concord,  14, 
343. 

Derby,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  7,  444. 

Derby's  Bridge,  threatened  by  ice, 
7,  191. 

Description,  scientific  and  poetic,  14, 
117-120. 

Desert,  on  Cape  Cod,  9,  437,  438,  452. 

Deamodium  acuminatum,  4,  230,  5, 
323. 

Deamodium  Canadenae,  5,  371,  11, 
93. 

Deamodium  paniculatum,  5,  377. 

Deamodium  rotundifolium,  9,  23,  24. 

Desmodiums,  9,  9-12,  23,  24;  seeds 
of,  5,  392,  9,  92,  93,  14,  74. 

Desmoulins.  Camille,  1,  429. 

Desor,  2,  105,  367. 

Despondency,  1,  95. 

Devil,  a  very  busy,  1,  207,  208;  wor-     -- 
ship  of,  12,  170. 

Devil-fishing,  14,  315. 

Devil's-needles.     See  Dragon-flies. 

Dew,  position  of,  on  grass,  4,  45;  on 
pontederia,  239;  in  a  muskrat's 
burrow,  ff,  68,  69;    manna  of  fair 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


874 


INDEX 


weather,  M2,  513;  a  humbler  rain, 
515;  beauty  of ,  13,  290;  after  sun- 
set, 401;  on  Mt.  Monadnock,  14, 
48,49. 

Dewdrop,  the  wonders  of  a,  lOy  239, 
240. 

Dew-grass.  14,  76,  77. 

Dharma  Sacontala,  9,  193. 

Dherma  Sdstra,  1,  267. 

Diana,  4,  472;   apostrophe  to,  9,  78. 
^  Diapensia  Lapponica,  11,  17,  18. 
^  Dickens,  Charles,  2,  482. 

Dictionaries,  10,  290. 

Diervilla,  6,  408. 

Diet,  its  relation  to  emplosrment,  6, 
20,  21.  See  also  Food. 

"Dildees,"  12,  149. 

DiU,  12,  341. 

Diogenes,  3,  196. 

Dioscorides,  3,  118,  281. 

Dipper,  the  theft  of  a,  3,  198. 

Dipper  (bird),  7,  37,  491,  10,  140, 
208.  209,  225, 322, 323, 503, 11, 163, 
187;  following  tame  ducks,  14,  96, 
97;  the  time  to  shoot  one,  103.  See 
also  Grebe. 

Dirca  pahMtrU,  9,  67,  68. 

Dirt,  defined,  3,  246. 

Disappointment,  1,  75. 

Discovery,  the  joy  of,  4,  292;  its  ef- 
fect on  observation,  9, 232;  mental 
attitude  requisite  for,  466. 

Disease,  cannot  coexist  with  a  rain- 
drop, 1,  95;  rupture  with  nature, 
234;  the  rule,  not  the  exception,  2, 
440,  449;  often  beautiful,  4,  91; 
diseEtsed  organisms  in  nature,  5, 
21;  analogy  with  sap  of  trees,  7, 
239;  prevalence  of,  among  men,  8, 
56;  in  the  spring,  269;  in  flower- 
buds,  423.   See  also  Sickness. 

Dish-washing,  10,  56. 

Distance,  charm  of,  4,  346,  347. 

Distribution,  law  of.  12,  155. 

Ditches,  flowering  of  the.  9,  82. 

Diversion,  different  from  amusement, 
1,  225. 
\    Divine  service,  1,  53. 

Divinity,  in  men,  1,  185. 

"Doab,"  meaning  of  word,  14,  296, 
297. 

Dock,  common,  in  New  Zealand,  2, 
263. 

Dock,  yellow,  2,  292. 

Doctor,  village.  9,  163. 

Dodge,  Luke,  8,  323. 

Dodge's  Brook,  5,  206,  207. 


Dogs,  barking  of,  1,  227, 10,  226,  227. 
252,  253;  hunting  moose,  2,  113; 
a  dog  following  a  wagon,  275;  effect 
of  darkness  on.  371 ;  worrying  cows, 
397.  398;  a  dog  returning  to  his 
vomit,  3, 74;  on  a  river  voyage,  75; 
and  pups,  225;  without  masters, 
294;  a  dog  snapping  at  waves.  383; 
the  "lawing"  of,  419;  distribution 
of  white  on  tails  of,  4,  401;  among 
Indians,  491;  a  dog  barking  at  a 
stump,  5,  20,  21;  a  dog  following  a 
boat,  262;  a  dog  killed  by  an  otter, 
353;  a  mad  dog  in  town,  522;  the 
story  of  a  mad  dog,  522-525;  a 
dog  running  on  ice,  7,  88;  a  dog 
drowned  by  a  fox,  154, 11,  387;  a 
dog  catching  ducks,  7, 353;  hunting 
at  night,  8,  138;  stealing  pork,  9, 
180;  Wheeler's  terrier,  198;  Esqui- 
mau, 299;  Ricketson's  "Ranger," 
320;  Baker's  Lion,  squirrel  chasing, 
356;  the  civilization  of  the  dog,  10, 
252,  253;  how  to  anger  a  doj.  342; 
and  carrion.  499;  tracks  of.  in  snow, 
11, 321.  322.  353.  354;  T.  's  grand- 
mother's dog.  14,  325,  326;  an  in- 
stance of  a  dog's  sense  of  decency, 
339;  a  meeting  between  a  spanid 
and  a  fox,  339,  340. 

Dog's-bane,  2,  313,  4,  116,  ff,  308, 9, 
5;    pod  of,  8,  306. 

Dogwood,  autumn  foliage  of,  4,  360, 
361,  367.  See  also  Ck)rnel,  ComiM 
florida,  and  Sumach,  poison. 

Donati,  Vitaliano,  3,  122. 

"  Dong,  sounds  the  brass  in  the  east," 
verse,  1,  259. 

Donne,  Dr.  John,  1,  467;  quoted,  2» 
150. 

Doolittle,  A.,  pictures  by,  9,  502. 

D'Orbigny,  Alcide,  2,  242. 

D'Orsay,  Count,  6,  70. 

Dor-bug,  4, 12, 100,5, 195,7,  213, 13, 
340. 

Dorr,  Capt.  E.  P.,  of  Buffalo,  9,  290. 

Double  consciousness,  4,  291. 

Doubt,  handmaid  of  faith,  1,  346.  "^ 

Douglas,  Gavin,  1,  294. 

Dove,  Professor,  3,  278. 

Dove,  ring,  cooing  of,  10,  226,  227. 

Dove,  turtle,  4, 68, 6, 85, 6, 18. 8, 329; 
flight  of.  4,  62;  attitudes  of,  365; 
nest  of,  8,  377, 10,  444. 

Doves,  domestic,  trodden  upon  by 
oxen,  4,  283;  noise  of,  alighting  on 
a  roof,  7,  317. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


375 


Downes,  John,  ^,  224. 

Downs,  John,  8,  378. 

Dragon-flies,  or  devil' s-needles,  4, 
180,  208,  411. 6,  263.  295,  296,  317, 
6,  332,  355.  8,  441, 9,  407.  408. 13, 
360,  361;  following  a  boat,  ff,  267; 
larvee  of,  6, 286, 7,  313;  long  flights 
of,  6,  400;   food  of,  14,  311. 

Drake's  "Collection  of  Voyages," 
quoted,  4,  226. 

Drayton,  Michael,  quoted,  1,  476. 

"Dream  Valley.  The,"  verse,  1,  71. 
\  Dreams,  2,  287;  reward  in,  1, 177;  a 
series  of,  3«  80, 81 ;  and  inertness  of 
intellect,  150;  based  on  previous 
existence.  4,  415;  moral  of,  472; 
"Rough  and  Smooth,"  9,  210,  211; 
the  relation  of  early  morning 
thoughts  to,  10,  141;  a  dream 
'  mountain,  141-144. 

Dress,  fitness  in,  1, 169, 170;  how  ren- 
dered appropriate,  196-198;  of  T. 
in  winter,  201;  fashion  and,  2,  5,  6; 
compared  to  the  bark  of  trees,  233, 
234;  respect  for,  3, 200;  a  lady's,  5, 
350;  Nature's,  497;  suitable,  8, 
299,  300;  of  a  laborer,  434;  of  a 
farmer  in  winter,  9, 149;  clay-color 
veraua  black  in,  359,  360;  small 
cost  of,  410;  in  the  woods,  10,  221; 
for  the  pedestrian,  11,  55,  56;  inhu- 
manity entailed  by,  12,  123,  124; 
apiMX)priate  for  autumn,  396;  in 
harmony  with  nature,  396, 13,  230- 
232. 

Drifting,  1.  75. 

Driftwood.   See  Fuel. 

Drink,  strong,  and  mowing,  9,  95, 
288. 

**  Drisk,"  a  drizzling  rain,  9,  437,  11, 
242. 

Driving,  disadvantages  of,  10,  74. 

Drosera  rotundifolia,  2,  431,  4,  75, 9, 
291. 

Drought,  effect  of,  on  nature,  2,  341; 
annual,  5,  813;  effects  of  a,  6,  450. 
454,  455,  478,  490,  491;  effect 
on  fishes,  465;  effect  on  maples, 
470. 

Druids,  4,  84. 

Drum,  a.  10,  393. 

Drummond,  William,  poetry  of,  1, 
465.     . 

Drunkards,  the  life  and  death  of 
Hugh  QuoU,  1,  414-418;  the  life 
and  death  of  Bill  Wheeler,  3,  195- 
198. 


Drunkenness,  drunken  scene  at  Pat- 
choguc,  2,  49-51. 

Duck,  black,  ff,  79.  80,  6,  168.  182, 
195,  7,  316,  333,  8,  264,  290,  292. 
12,  94, 13,  207,  211.  213;  whistling 
sound  made  by,  5,  59;  quacking  of, 
79,  80. 6,  175,  178, 10,  344;  asleep 
in  ice,  6,  173,  174;  on  land,  188; 
feeding,  7,  327;  a  harrow  of,  458; 
nest  of,  8,  192,  9,  456;  Minott 
shooting,  8,  194,  195;  a  flock  of 
forty,  10,  317;  asleep,  335,  336; 
alarmed,  344;  with  sheldrakes,  12t 
135;  contents  of  crop  of,  14,  337. 

Duck,  bufile-headed,  7,  323, 14,  338. 

Duck,  dusky,  5,  442. 

Duck,  eider,  12,  149. 

Duck,  wood  or  summer,  1,  6,  6,  202, 
7,  271,  8,  443,  444,  451, 10,  100, 
317,  424,  425,  14,  56,  88.  108;  a 
near  view  of  one,  8, 16,  17;  a  float- 
ing gem,  16;  all  jewels  combined, 
19;  caught  in  steel  traps,  10,  100; 

eaten  by  Mrs. ,  107;    perched 

on  maple  tree,  11,  129;  carrying 
young,  12, 150;  nest  of,  224;  notes 
of,  14,  88;  young  swimming  fast, 
102. 

Ducks.  See  also  Golden-eye  and  Shel- 
drake. 

Ducks,  domestic,  hatched  by  hen,  4, 
197;  legs  of,  197;  feeding  and 
swimming,  ff,  101,  102. 

Ducks,  unidentified,  3,  395,  5,  40,  65, 
95,  96, 6, 169, 170,  194,  286,  292, 7, 
5,  23,  55,  243,  244,  255,  280,  323, 
324,  485, 13,  33,  211,  424,  425. 

Ducks,  wild,  5,  99;  habits  of,  on  the 
river,  1,  128;  shooting,  422;  par- 
allelism in  flight  of,  3,  394;  flight 
of,  425,  4,  383,  384;  accentuating 
wildness  of  scenery,  3,  426;  cun- 
ning of,  429.  430;  detained  by 
wsather,  435;  swept  north  with 
the  storms,  4,  19;  cry  of  a  solitary 
duck,  196;  winter  habits  of,  487; 
watching  the  weather,  ff ,  23;  danger 
signals  of,  95, 96;  flapping  along  on 
the  water.  6, 286;  on  a  stormy  day, 
7,  270,  271;  sleeping  quarters  of, 
272;  the  water  alive  with,  283, 284; 
a  small  one  asleep,  323,  324;  flying 
straight  away,  8,  299;  protected 
by  fallen  leaves,  10,  117,  118;  re- 
vealed by  a  glade  of  sunlight,  133, 
134;  an  active  flock,  317.  318; 
persecuted  by  sportsmen,  320.  321; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


376 


INDEX 


detained  by  weather,  326;  a  duck 

kiUed  by  a  weathercock,  366;    a 

diving  duck,  12, 134;  hiding-places 

of.  13,  425. 
Dudley  family  tomb,  7,  494. 
Dudley  Pond,  3,  03,  94. 
Dugan,  of  Concord,  5,  50,  71. 
Dugan,  George,  2,  410. 
Dugan,  Jenny,  her  spring-house,  2, 77. 
Dumb-bells,  14,  111. 
Dunbar,  Charles,  cousin  of  T.,  7,  615, 

10, 405. 12,  86,  87. 
Dunbar,  Charles,  uncle  of  T.,  2,  65; 

on  geniuses,  4,  440;    leaping  over 

yoke  of  oxen,  466;  death  of,  8, 229; 

buried,  230;     stories   about,    245, 

246;  gynmastic  feats  of,  12,  38. 
Dunbar,  David,  uncle  of  T.,  8,  64. 
Dunbar,  Louisa,  aunt  of  T..  7,  185, 8, 

37, 10,  275. 
Dtmbar,   Mary  Jones,  grandmother 

of  T.,  14,  325,  326. 
Dunbar,  Sophia,  aunt  of  T..  14,  325, 

326. 
Dunes,  on  Cape  Ann,  11,  178. 
Dunge  Hole,  7,  175. 
Durand,  Mr.,  of  Philadelphia,  7,  74. 
Durkee,  Dr.,  lO,  248. 
Dust,  beauty  of,  4,  251;  on  the  river, 

12,  192;  handsome  distribution  of, 

over  the  ice,  13,  129. 
Dustin,  Hannah,  2,  8,  5,  113;  site  of 

her  house  in  Haverhill,  2,  7. 
Duty,  1,  119. 

**  Each  more  melodious  note  I  hear," 
verse,  1,  102. 

Eagle,  white-headed,  6,  189,  190,  9, 
22,  U,  117,  118,  131;  flight  of,  6, 
214,  215;  shot,  7,  354. 

Eagles,  5,  95, 8,  255, 10,  331.  482;  at- 
titudes of,  1,  351;  William  Wood 
on,  7,  135;  MacGillivray  on,  349, 
350. 

Eagleswood,  Perth  Amboy,  N.  J., 
visit  to,  9,  133-139,  142,  143. 

Earth,  blocks  of  frozen,  6,  139,  142. 
^  Earth,  the,  civilization  of,  1, 401 ;  stage 
^  for  all  dramas,  408;  like  a  de- 
bauchee. 4,  106;  stratification  of. 
383;  living  forces  of,  6,  99,  100; 
papillae  of.  120,  121;  pregnant  with 
law,  148;  not  a  graveyard  but  a 
granary,  162;  as  a  mother,  7,  28, 
29;  nostrils  of,  8,  241;  as  a  habita- 
tion for  man,  330;  convexity  of, 
461;  confidence  in,  9, 310;  song  of, 


•J 


403;  breath  of,  10, 281;  compared^ 
to  a  ripe  fruit,  11, 243,  244;  Ukened 
to  a  ship,  384, 385;  leopard-spotted, 
12,  97;  beauty  and  richness  of  its 
crust,  109,  110. 

Earthworm.  See  Fishworm. 

East  India  Marine  Hall,  11, 170,  180. 

East  Main,  1,  306. 

Easterbrooks  Country,  described  and 
named,  ff,  239,  240;  a  wild  and 
rich  domain,  10,  112. 

Eating,  2,  45. 

Eavely,  Joe,  house  of,  4,  346. 

Echo,  an  independent  sound,  3,  68; 
flower  of  sound,  4«  14;  companion- 
ability  of,  492,  493. 

"Echo  of  the  Sabbath  Bell  heard  in 
the  Woods,  The,"  verse,  1,  259. 

Echoes,  2,  81,  82;  vagaries  of,  3,  50, 
51;  on  Himt's  farm,  4,  492. 

Eckstorm,  Mrs.  Fannie  Hardy,  her 
"Penobscot  Man,"  5,  425  note. 

Economy,  3,  241.  8,  30,  31. 

Ecstasy,  a  vibration  of  the  nerves,  3, 
175. 

Eden,  garden  of,  2,  11. 

Edgewood,  origin  of  word,  9,  206. 

Education,  what  it  does,  2,  83;  n^-  yp 
lected  opportunities  for  education 
by  libraries,  etc.,  3,  24-26,  4,  323- 
325;  finished  in  Europe,  5,  344, 
345;  given  by  trees  in  a  village,  11, 
219,  220;  a  liberal,  13,  15;  an  esti- 
mate of  its  value,  67,  68. 

Edwards  and  Comte.  quoted,  10, 385. 

Eel,  7,  170,  8,  327.  328;  large,  8,  96, 
10,  114;  stopping  a  mill-wheel.  8, 
303,  304;  at  mill-dams,  327.  328; 
habits  of. 9,  430;  "gendering  "  into 
clam,  10,  399.  429;  Haynes's  ob- 
servations on.  11,  233,  234. 

Eel,  lamprey,  10,  378,  399,  406,  407, 
417. 

Eel,  sand,  2,  358. 

Eel-grass,  5,  299,  300. 

Eggs,  interest  of  nature  in,  1,  341. 

Egypt,  3,  290. 

Egyptian  Museum,  New  York,  10, 
443. 

Egyptians,  1,  165. 

Ehrenberg,  Christian  Gottfried,  2, 
240,  245. 

Eider.   See  Duck,  eider. 

El  Dorado.  2,  11. 

Elder,  4,  217.  6,  110;   pith  of,  8,  215. 

Elder-berries,  12,  297,  311,  316. 

Elecampane,  2,  467, 9,  4. 


Digitized 'by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


S77 


Electricity,  father  of  Lightning  and 

Magnetism,  3,  12. 
Eleocharia  acicularis,  12,  278. 
Elephants.  2,  132,  244. 
Elfin  Burial-Ground,  7,  217. 
Elk,  European,  skeleton  of,  7,  74. 
Eliott,  Stephen,  his  "Sketch  of  the 

Botany     of     South-Carolina    and 

Geoi^gia,"  quoted,  9,  291. 
Elliott,  William,  his  ••  Carolina  Sport," 

14,  315-319. 
Ellis.  Samuel.  9,  422-424. 
Elm,  3,  53, 3,  36, 4, 17, 6,  477, 8, 118, 

10,  414,  13,  336;  seen  at  a  great 
distance,  2,  64.  10,  88,  89;  in  the 
water.  2,  154;  outlines  of.  at  night, 
248;  branches  killed  by  pine  gros- 
beaks. 3,  352;  Cheney's,  414,  4,  8; 
blossoms  of,  3.  482.  487. 9, 409. 10, 
379;  the  great  Davis,  4,  78,  8,  116, 
117,  125-127,  130-132,  142-146, 
206;  the  Jones,  4,  90;  branches 
like  thunderbolts,  448;  by  moon- 
light, 5,  286;  samarse  of,  6,  281; 
an  experiment  with  an.  303,  304; 
some  large  elms,  8,  135,  136;  cit- 
izenship of  the  elms,  139-142; 
thoughts  suggested  by,  372;  a  val- 
uable, 9,  247;  method  of  preserv- 
ing an  old,  256, 257;  measurements 
of.  10,  10;  in  autumn  dress.  78,  79, 

11,  200;  an  ulmarium,  10,  79;  the 
Washington,  14,  120. 

Elm.  slippery.  5,  227;  gall  on.  311; 
buds  of.  6,  195;  blossoms  of,  216. 

Elodea.  10,  493. 
NEloquence,  the  language  of,  14,  117. 

Elwell.  Captain,  9,  255. 

Emerson.  Edith,  6,  433,  435,  9,  472, 
10,  377,  482, 11,  87,  149. 

Emerson.  Edward  Waldo.  5,  358  note, 
435,  7,  406.  8,  285.  286,  342.  10, 
439,  444. 448.  497, 11,  77;  his  snow 
cave,  9, 227 ;  his  aquarium,  12, 151 . 

Emerson,  Ellen  Tucker,  5, 435, 7, 406. 

Emerson,  George  B.,  2, 350,  8, 118, 9, 
61,  10,  11,  11,  53,  348;  quoted,  4, 
48,  6,  481,6,  154. 8, 401, 432,9,  35, 
55,  67. 

Emerson,  Miss  Mary  Moody,  charac- 
terization of,  3,  113.  114;  reading 
aloud  to.  179;  a  characteristic  re- 
ply of.  204  ;  adaptability  of,  8, 146. 

Emerson,  Moses,  of  Haverhill.  5,  115. 

Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo,  3,  85.  4,  15, 
6,  316,  6,  17,  8,  288,  10,  379,  411, 
431,11,364,12,28,313;  his  "The 


Sphinx"  interpreted,  1,  229-237; 
an  estimate  of,  431-433;  on-  Mar- 
garet Fuller,  3, 134;  reading  a  book 
of,  134,  135;  a  talk  about  archi- 
tecture with,  181;  pictured  out  of 
character,  250;  praise  given  by, 
256;  a  futile  talk  with.  5,  188; 
brings  plants  from  Yarmouth,  421; 
driving  away  his  own  calf,  6,  15; 
visiting  house  of,  8,  66,  67;  returns 
from  a  lecturing  tour,  163;  Minott 
and,  195;  on  the  "lecturing  busi- 
ness," 195;  setting  out  trees,  294; 
tells  of  Agassiz's  turtles,  342;  goes 
to  an  auction,  362;  his  imitation 
of  the  wood  thrush's  song,  384; 
on  toadstools,  467;  walks  with,  9, 
50,10,168;  dinner  with,  9, 298;  at 
Naushon,  10,  15;  his  Biographical 
Sketch  of  Thoreau  cited ,  11, 32  note; 
his  gun,  77;  as  a  sportsman,  119, 
120;  Goodwin  on  his  youthful  ap- 
pearance, 289;  buys  pine  seed,  12, 
153;  planting  acorns,  14,  178. 

Emerson,  William.  10,  470;  T.  visits, 
at  Staten  Island,  443. 

Emerson  children,  8,  465,  10,  222, 
249. 

Emersons,  the.  berrying  with,  7,  452. 

Emmons,  Ebenezer,  his  Report  on 
the  Quadrupeds  of  Massachusetts, 
quoted,  4,  421,  8,  367.  408,  409,9, 
74,  10,  437, 14,  80,  81;  his  Report 
on  the  Insects  of  the  State  of  New 
York,  quoted,  9,  319. 

Empedocles,  quoted,  1,  139. 

Empetrum  nigrum,  11,  18,  43,  44. 

Emys  guttata.  See  Tortoise,  yellow- 
spotted. 

Emys  in8culpta.  See  Tortoise,  wood. 

Emys  meleagria.  See  Tortoise,  Bind- 
ing's. 

Emye  picta.  See  Tortoise,  painted. 

"Encyclopaedia  of  Agriculture,"  8, 
387. 

England,  2,  8;  government  in,  413; 
lack  of  footpaths  in,  451;  comfort 
in.  3,  191;  prospect  of  war  with, 
8,  189. 

English,  use  of.  ff,  43. 

Englishman,  an  old,  1,  48;  the,  com- 
pared with  the  American,  2,  399; 
his  reverence  for  God,  4,  320. 

Engravings,  old,  of  Concord  and  Lex- 
ington, 9,  502. 

Enjoyment,  10,  111;  true  paths  to, 
145-147. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


378 


INDEX 


Enthusiasm,  changed  into  tempera- 
ment, 3,  86. 
Ephemera,  6, 157, 331;  a  flight  of,  8, 

370-372. 
Epicurus,  1,  150. 
Epigsea.  See  Mayflower. 
EpUobtum  angustifolium,  11,  119. 
EpUobium  coloratum,  4,  303. 
fkiuisetum.  See  Pipes. 
Equiaeium  arvenae,  7,  331. 
Equieetum  hyemale,  7«  81   and  note, 

401.9,478. 
Equiaetum  limoaum,  7,  387, 13,  276, 
Erechthites,9, 15;  and  fire,ff,  350,9, 

26.  113. 
Erigeron  beUidifolvua,5^  128, 158,  159, 

201.7,405. 
Eriocaulon.  7,  316.  9,  237,  10,  349, 

11,  66,  169. 
Eriocaulon  balls.   See  Grass  balls. 
Eeox  i<uciatu9.  See  Pickerel. 
"Especial  I  remember  thee,"  verse, 

1,256. 
Esquimaux,  the.  2,  475;  and  islands. 

3,  360;  their  dependence  on  ani- 
mals, 9,  192;  trading,  193;  and  the 
products  of  civilization,  195;  isola- 
tion of,  200;  their  cure  for  scurvy, 

V       11,  17. 

Essays,  the  ideal  essay  on  human  life, 

4,  263;    disappointing.  10,  228. 
Essex  Institute,  11,  170. 

Ether,  effects  of,  2, 194,  8,  142. 
^  Etiquette,  1,  133. 

Eupatorium,  in  winter,  8,  69.  72. 

Eupatorvum  Tpurpureutn,  3,  32, 5,  343, 
6,  463. 12,  209.  See  aUo  Trumpet- 
flower. 

Eupatorium  eeenlifolium,  5,  371. 

Euphorind  hypericifolia,  9,  33. 

Euphorbia  polygonifolia,  7,  436. 

Euripides,  quoted,  1,  139. 

Europe,  sky  and  climate  of.  compared 
with  those  of  America,  3,  268;  as  a 
finishing  school, 5,  344,  345;  plants 
of,  introduced  into  America,  11, 
261-263. 

Evel3m,  John,  notes  from,  4,  84-88; 
his  glorification  of  the  forest,  85; 
vocabulary  of ,  85-87;  his  English, 
6,43. 

Evening,  sounds  of,  1,  55;  its  rela- 
tion to  morning.  152;  the  seal  of, 
2,  435;  serenity  and  chastity  of, 
435.  436;  compared  with  morning, 
603,  4,  333;  red  of,  204,  264;  the 
reverse  side  of  day,  245;  the  charm 


of,  5,  369-371:  serenity  of,  6,  417, 
418. 

"  Evening  Wind,  The,"  verse,  1,  72. 

Evening-primrose,  common,  or  tree- 
primrose  {(Enothera  hienniti),  2, 
273  and  note.  4, 159, 6,  408, 8,  400; 
radical  leaves  of,  5,  476  and  note ; 
opening  of  8,  465;  seeds  of,  13,  68. 

Evening-primrose,  dwarf,  or  dwarf 
tree-primrose  {(E.  pumUa),  2,  278. 

Events,  constrained  by  character,  1, 
323,  324;  logic  of.  341,  342. 

Evergreen-forest  bird,  6,  262,  321. 
343,  363. 9,  360. 

Evergreen  trees,  prominence  of,  after 
the  change  and  fall  of  the  leaf,  5, 
478;  seen  through  base,  7,  392; 
desirable  species  for  planting,  10, 
185;  brightest  after  their  fall,  11, 
317. 

Evergreens,  of  the  forest  floor.  6,  12; 
effect  of  cold  on  leaves  of,  10,  280, 
281.   See  also  Lycopodiums. 

Everlasting  {Qnaphalium) ,  4,  34,  55, 
5,  18.  See  aleo  Mouse-ear. 

Everlasting,  fragrant,  2,  93,  4, 363, 9, 
280.11,93.94. 

Everlasting,  pearly  (Antennaria  mar- 
garitacea),  an  elysian  flower,  4,  307; 
a  handsome  bed  of,  9, 14;  described, 
11,  186. 

Evidence,  circumstantial,  in  the  snow, 
13,  75. 

Evil,  opposed  to  enjoyment  of  na- 
ture, 6,  358;  consolations  for,  9, 
309,  310. 

Exaggeration,  Intimacy  of,  1,  411, 
412;  value  of ,  6, 100. 

Excitement,  love  of,  2,  30. 

Exercise,  of  paddling,  3,  380,  381; 
artificial,  14,  111. 

Expeditation,  3,  419. 

Experience,  how  realised,  1,  358; 
most  fertile  when  recurred  to,  4, 
20;  value  of,  for  vocabulary.  225; 
value  of  outward,  312.  313. 

Experiments,  the  value  of,  2,  189. 

Expression,  of  self,  3,  157. 

Eye,  the,  individuality  of,  1, 166;  of  a 
brave  man,  171;  godlikeness  of, 
331 ;  in  astronomy,  2,  294;  tasting 
and  drinking  with,  490;  position  of, 
3,  387;  rested  by  the  sky,  11,  295; 
hunger  of,  450;  unseeing,  12,  347, 
348;  like  china  saucers.  348. 

Eyestone,  uses  of  an,  9,  233. 

Eystein  the  Bad.  3,  309. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


379 


Faces,  gross,  12,  364. 

Facts,  and  principles,  1,  450;    the 
<^,      frame  to  pictures,  3,  99;  the  state- 
ment of,  13,  160. 

"Fair  Haven,"  verse,  1,  62. 

Fair  Haven  Cliflf,  view  from,  2,  9. 

Fair  Haven  Hill,  pasture  on,  3,  37; 
seen  to  advantage,  3,  74;  a  storm 
on,  5,  493,  494;  seen  through  the 
mist,  7,  12;  view  from,  10,  72,  73, 
305,  306, 11,  355. 

Fair  Haven  Pond,  Lake,  or  Bay,  2,  9, 
107,  160, 4, 338;  wUdness  of,  2, 374; 
by  moonlight,  464.  476,  477;  a 
Baffin's  Bay,  3,  275;  gulls  on,  391, 
392,  417;  Uke  a  mirror,  411,  412; 
on  an  August  afternoon,  4,  330, 
331;  surface  of,  352;  in  October, 
385,  386;  a  memorable  hour  at,  5, 
166-168. 

Fairhaven  (the  town),  old  houses  in, 
7,  480,  481;  a  painter's  studio  in, 
481,  482. 

Fairies,  made  for  moonlight,  3,  47. 
V.  Faith,  4,  250;  of  man  in  man,  1, 178; 
effect  of  music  on,  188;  defined, 
248;  dependence  of,  on  doubt, 
346;  curative  power  of,  4,  157; 
necessity  for  some,  9,  169;  and 
ecstasy,  217;  unreality  of  human, 
237,  238;   and  prejudice,  11,  326. 

Falco  fu9cua.  See  Hawk,  sharp- 
shinned. 

Falkland  Isles,  S,  244.  246. 

Fall.  See  Autumn. 

Fall  Mountain,  view  from,  9, 75,  76. 
^Fame,  measure  of,   1,   189;  of   the 
great  dead,  212;  worthlessness  of, 
239;  injustice  of,  6,  328. 

"Far  o'er  the  bow,"  verse,  1,  457. 

Fare,  cost  of  good,  11,  180. 

"Farewell,"  verse.  1,  95. 
\  Farmer,  Edward,  7,  445. 

^  Farmer,  Jacob,  5,  36,6, 181.  204,  229, 
7,  206,  211,  239,  248.  8,  34.9,  311. 
11,  133;  136,  396,  12,  39.  13,  297; 
on  Dodge's  Brook.  5,  206.  207;  a 
natural-history  talk  with.  7,  206- 
208;  on  peetweets.  422;  money 
found  by.  444;  talks  with,  444. 
445,  9,  306-309,  13,  316;  taking 
tea  with,  8«  40;  on  an  attempt  to 
kill  a  cat.  52;  tells  a  fox  story,  76; 
on  chimney  swallows'  nests,  9,  16; 
hoeing  com.  457;  his  collection  of 
birds'  eggs,  459;  his  story  of  his 
name  for  the  tanager,  459;  witness 


in  a  boundary  case,  10,  172,  173, 
177;  watching  swallows  feeding 
young,  173, 174;  on  Boaz's  meadow, 
174;  strange  animal  seen  by,  448; 
on  the  island  in  the  Assabet,  12, 
246;   after  hawks  with,  13,  316. 

Farmer,  the,  and  merchant,  1, 78;  life 
of,  142;  not  versatile,  241,  242; 
vemu  the  naturalist,  2, 105;  raiakes 
use  of  first  snowfall,  122;  health 
of,  160;  and  his  crops,  293, 294;  ox- 
like,  453;  his  work  analogous  to 
the  scholar' s,  3, 207 ;  like  the  lichen , 
352;  practical  knowledge  of,  371; 
his  life  compared  to  the  sailor's,  4, 
226;  considered  as  a  shipbuilder, 
465,  466;  exploits  of,  483;  de- 
mand for  poetry  in  life  of,  6,  93, 
94;  dignity  of,  106,  107;  track  of 
his  cowhides,  7,  202;  in  winter 
guise,  9,  149;  work  for,  in  winter, 
201;  his  delight  in  his  work,  10, 
170;  sincere  life  of,  11,  378,  379; 
the  blessings  of,  12,  144;  and  the 
birds,  144,  145;  his  life  idealised, 
369;  nature  of  his  content,  14,  260. 

Farmers,  homes  of,  in  Ck>ncord.  1, 389; 
preparing  for  winter,  2,  96;  lacking 
in  sentiment,  332;  inoffensiveness 
of,  370;  their  work  after  haying, 
460;  young  Concord,  3,  32;  myth- 
ological incident  of  a  wounded 
farmer,  276;  clearing  up  wood-lots, 
363;  burying  a  cow  on  Sunday. 
4,  254;  dullness  of,  6,  20,  21;  diet 
of,  21;  wealth  of,  9,  115;  wearing 
rags  indoors,  11,  378,  379;  an 
unskillful  farmer,  14,  131. 

Farmhouse,  charm  of,  in  landscape, 
4,  233,  234. 

Farming,  old-country  methods  of,  2, 
272,  273;  good  training  for  in- 
dustry. 4,  247;  as  an  amusement. 
10,  146;  profit  of  milk  farms.  11, 
454. 

Farms,  conservative  management  of, 
1,  249,  250;  a  report  o^.  3, 327;  the 
history  of  a  farm,  328;  old-fashioned 
and  new-fashioned,  10,  286. 

Farquhar,  Mr.,  of  Maryland,  5,  439. 

Farrar,  the  blacksmith,  of  Concord,  9, 
109,  303. 

Farrar,  Deacon,  sons  of,  10,  15,  16; 
on  Lee's  Bridge  and  Farrar's  Bridge, 
12,  212,  213. 

Farrar,  John  W.,  3,  4. 

Farrar,  Willard,  surveying  for,  9,  346. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


380 


INDEX 


Farrar's  Bridge.  12,  213. 

FaahioD,  whinuicality  of,  3,  280,  281; 
the  worship  of,  6,  70. 

Faasett,  aeea  in  his  shaoty  on  Monad- 
nock,  10,  454. 

FastidiouBness,  2,  463. 

Fatality,  10,  251,  252. 

Fay,  an  <^  gentleman  named,  his  ad- 
venture with  a  mad  dog,  6,  S23r- 
525. 

Fay,  LoweU.  5,  20. 

Fear,  to  be  feared.  2,  468. 

Fears,  good  prophiets,  1,  339. 

Fdch,  a  phrenologist,  2,  19. 

Felix.  Israel.  7,  473. 

Felix,  Thomas.  7,  473. 

F^ices.  man's  puny,  1,  320;  mark 
natural  divisions.  2,  20;  of  pine 
roots,  01,  92;  of  roots  and  stumps. 
318;  on  the  Corner  road,  397;  in 
kuidsci^ies,  3,  428;  philosophy  of. 
4,  222.  223;  Varro's  classification 
of.  6,  74;  of  roots.  8,  58.  59;  on 
C^pe  Cod,  9,  425;  cost  of  a  fence. 
437;  fence  made  of  oars,  449;  built 
by  T..  10,  63. 

Fenda.  1,  429. 

Fennel,  2,  242. 

Fern,  cinnamon,  6,  406,  10,  58,  11, 
118,  200;  wool  of,  10,417;  tropi- 
cal character  of,  12,  344,  345. 

Fern,  climbing  or  tree  iLygodium 
palnuUum) ,  3, 130, 4, 364, 5, 348. 6, 
369,438. 

Fern,  dioksonia,  scent  of,  12,  345- 
347.  349.  350;  lingering  greenness 
of,  370,  371. 

Fern,  flowering,  6,  324,  345;  circular 
growth  of,  449. 

Fern,  interrupted,  10,  494;  wool  of, 
417. 

Fern,  maidenhair,  4,  76,  96,  ff,  191. 

Fern,  ostrich,  5,  405. 

F&m,  sensitive,  7, 107;  fruit  stems  of, 
6,  221:  sensitiveness  of,  9,  62. 

Fern,  terminal  shield,  10,  164. 

Ferns,  4, 26,*6,  288, 289,6, 235, 7,  515. 
9, 483, 12, 353;  fruit  of,  4, 71 ;  spring 
scent  of,  154;  light  reflected  from. 
217;  th^  beauty  when  just  un- 
folded, 5,  190,  191;  made  for  pure 
leaves,  343;  lace-work  of.  397; 
brown-tipped,  7,  40;  in  winter, 
sketch  of,  8, 86;  evergreen,  10, 123, 
149,  150,  155, 11,  321,  332. 12,  359. 
360;  in  coal,  10,  238;  sober  brown 
colors  of,  in  fall,  12,  353;   fond  of 


banks,  450;  of  Mt.  Monadnock,  14, 
27,28.  See  a^  Osmunda  and  Poly- 
pody. 

Ferris,  Benjamin  G.,  his  "Utah  and 
the  Mormons*'  quoted,  6,  490. 

Feudal  system,  in  Canada,  2,  412. 

Fever-bush,  2,  186,  4,  295,  7,  334; 
buds  of,  5,  481 ;  attractive  to  the 
bee,  9,  61;  berries  of,  12,  350.  351. 
14,91. 

Feverwort,  berries  of,  12,  317,  376. 

Fibre,  strong,  8,  119. 

Field,  Georgie^  on  coknrs,  quoted,  10, 
99. 

Fieki,  John,  1,  383,  384. 

Fiekie,  the  ideal,  4, 122;  origin  of  the 
word,  483;  light  reflected  from 
shorn,  6,  411. 

Fields,  James  T.,  7,  8  note. 

Fifth  Avenue,  houses  on,  7,  76. 

Fil  de  Veau,  a  convenient  expreasaorL, 
9   280. 

Filberts.  2,  313.   See  aUo  Haael* 

FimbriMtylU  capiUarig,  12,  314. 

Finch,  grass.  See  Bay-wing. 

Finch,  purple,  1,  449, 4,  6, 17, 5,  303. 
6,  198,  8,  278;  song  of,  4,  31,  69, 
108.  6,  193,  201,  210,  7,  302,  385. 
8.  284. 10,  345,  346;  nest  and  eggs 
of,  497,  498. 

Finch,  towhee.  See  Chewink. 

Findley,  A.  G.,  quoted,  2,  348.  349. 

Fir,  balsam,  2,  279,  11,  36,  13,  335; 
fragrance  of,  5,  197,  9,  385;  regu- 
lar tops  of,  493;  in  White  Moun- 
tains, U,  31,  32,  37,  45,  46,  48,  49, 
56,57;  scrub,  31,  32, 45,  46,  48, 49, 
56,  57;  used  for  bridge  planking, 
37. 

Fire,  in  the  stove,  1,  218;  Thoreau 
sets  fire  to  the  woods,  2,  21-25. 40; 
tending  a  burning  in  the  woods,  27- 
29;  running  to  a  fire,  30;  a  pro- 
posed method  of  fighting  fires  in  the 
woods,  34,  35;  worship  of,  35;  ef- 
fect of,  on  woods,  39,  40,  5,  174; 
purifies  woods,  4,  18;  wonder  of, 
22,  23;  oompanionability  of,  444; 
the  foe  of  the  woods,  5,  176;  fires 
on  the  ice,  6,  104,  105,  133,  134; 
extensive  fires  in  woods  and  mea- 
dows, 7,  7;  flames  of,  39;  Ughting 
and  extinguishing,  in  the  open,  167, 
168;  danger  of,  in  woods,  8,  267; 
in  Mt.  Washington  woods.  11,  26; 
color  of,  12,  102;  burning  of  a 
thousand  acres  in  Concord,  13, 236, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


881 


239,  240;  season  for  forest  fires, 
236,  240;  the  woods  after,  14, 105; 
at  Mrs.  Hoar's,  111. 
Fireflies.  2,  249,  260,  4,  111,  129; 
their  relation  to  the  stars,  108; 
shine  for  love,  109. 

V  Fireplaces,  old-fashioned,  2,  7,  8. 
Fisherman,  the,  3,  290. 

Fishermen,  a  Haverhill  fisherman,  5, 
113,  114;  New  Bedford,  9,  321, 
322,  325,  326;  as  philosophers,  11, 
238.   See  alao  Pickerel-fishers. 

"Fisher's  Son,  The,"  verse,  1,  110. 

Fishes,  7,  381;  sympathy  with,  1, 
120;  the  fish  a  guide  in  construct- 
ing a  boat,  137;  our  finny  contem- 
poraries, 474,  475;  feeding,  2,  36; 
the  river's  crop,  321;  useful  to  the 
poor,  321;  nests  of,  4,  216,  217; 
their  fondness  for  springs,  221; 
leaping  for  flies,  6,  338,  339;  care 
of  the  young  by,  373,  374;  a  fish 
lacerated  by  a  kingfisher,  459,  460; 
effect  of  drought  on,  465;  William 
Wood  on,  7,  136;  in  winter,  8,  104; 
at  a  dam,  326,  327;  iridescent  oil 
from  a  dead  fish,  342,  343;  leap- 
ing after  insects,  371,  372;  frozen 
and  revived,  9,  299,  308;  catch  of, 
at  New  Bedford,  321,  322;  driven 
out  by  civilization,  327;  experi- 
ments in  artificial  breeding  of,  454; 
going  up  the  brooks  in  spring,  10, 
314;  spawn  of,  349.  350,  361-363; 
hatching,  370,  371;  development 
of  young,  385;  school  of,  on  surface, 

11,  303;  in  winter  quarters,  311; 
source  of  man's  interest  in,  360;  ad- 
venturous life  of,  383;  their  readi- 
ness to  extend  their  territory,  13, 
41. 

Fishing,  2,  21-23;  not  merely  fish 
caught  in,  4,  480;  an  introduction 
to  nature,  6,  304,  305;  best  time 
for,  7,  113;  with  a  noose,  10,  359, 
360;  a  bankrupt  engaged  in,  11, 
196.   See  also  Pickerel-fishing. 

Fish-spearers,  3,  49;  their  light,  4, 
21,  22. 

Fish-trap,  a  willow,  10,  312,  313. 

Fish  worms,  or  earthworms,  7,  272, 
273, 12, 114;  out  in  the  rain, 9,  357, 

12,  156,  157;  said  to  be  unknown 
in  a  part  of  Maine,  11,  136;  first 
worm-piles  observed  in  spring,  13, 
205,  234. 

Fitchburg,  lecturing  at,  9,  235. 


Fitchburg  Raiboad,  2,  13,  03, 9,  175, 
176. 

Flag,  the  national,  3,  279.  ^ 

Flag,  blue,  4,  91,  92, 5,  252. 

Flag,  sweet,  fruit  of,  4,  74;  fragrance 
of,  13,  309.  See  alao  Flag-root  and 
Critchicrotches. 

Flag  Hill,  walk  to,  4,  114-123. 

Flag-root,  7,  336,  337. 

Flagg,  Wilson,  quoted,  12,  258. 

Flags,  barrel  and  chair,  9,  444. 

Flags,  effect  of,  on  landscapes,  2, 18. 

Fkiil,  sound  of  the,  11,  158. 

Flame,  7,  39;  descriptive  power  of 
the  word,  4,  443. 

Flannery,  of  Concord,  10,  220;  cheer- 
fulness of,  187. 

Flattery,  1,  209. 

Fleas,  pink,  11,  204. 

Fleas,  purple,  2,  455. 

Fletcher,  Giles,  work  of,  1,  471. 

Flicker,  or  pigeon  woodpecker,  1,  252, 
3,  66,  460,  5,  98,  6,  128,  8,  295; 
notes  of,  2,  304,  5,  61,  122, 6,  181, 
207,  419,  7,  294,  330,  333,  8,  295, 
318, 10,  65,  300,  301,  368,  12,  77; 
tapping  of,  4,  11,  6,  60,  61,  8,  281; 
nest  of,  5, 151, 7,  420;  young  of,  5, 
289,  290,  8,  375;  sound  made  by 
wings  of,  6,  430;  billing,  7,  330; 
courting,  10, 368;  damaging  houses, 

11,  367;  excavating  nest,  13,  276. 
See  also  Woodpeckers. 

Flies,  in  early  winter,  2,  86,  87;  in 
the  woods,  317;  pestering  nature 
of,  438;  crawling  forth  from  winter 
quarters,  3,  161;  carriers  of  pollen, 
6,  105;  impishness  of,  12,  256,  257. 
See  also  House-fly. 

Flies,  black,  in  White  Mountains,  11, 
35.  51;  in  Ck)ncord,  12,  182. 

Flies,  kelp.  9,  417. 

Flies,  wood,  9,  481,  482. 

Flints,  making,  1,  453. 

Flint's  Bridge,  12,  56,  57. 

Flint's  Pond,  2,  38,  39,  3,  371,  372; 
reasons  for  visiting,  2, 496,  3,  372; 
low  water  in,  6,  455. 

Floating  down  a  smooth  stream,  6, 
438  439 

Floating-heart.  4,  212.  216.  234,  280, 
6,  273,  296,  297,  300,  307,  315,  318, 
6,  452, 10,  21. 

Flood,  a  Concord  man,  8,  336, 10, 169, 

12,  60;   on  bricking  up  an  elm,  9, 
256,  257. 

Flood,  Peter,  on  peat,  9,  17. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


382 


INDEX 


FloocU.  1«  121. »,  447.6, 299-241. 243. 
244.  246-248;  the  wreck  of  the 
river,  5«  485.  486;  mechanical  force 
of,  6«  160;  dangers  and  inconve- 
niences of,  in  Concord,  7«  195;  as 
presovers  of  meadow  land,  0«  19. 
20;  high-watCT  record  of,  152. 

Flowers,  the  true  lore  of,  3,  252,  253; 
as  seen  by  child  and  by  botanist, 
279;  want  of  popular  account  of, 
281;  unexpected  appearance^  of ,  in 
spring,  473.  476.  477;  lists  of.  474. 
475.  4,  49,  50,  257,  258,  414,  415. 
6,  229.  230, 12,  132,  133,  305;  ex- 
I^ession  of  character  by,  4,  92; 
express  the  beautiful  and  the  ugly, 
96,  149;  made  to  be  seen,  99;  the 
ideal  flower,  104;  showy,  and  odor- 
less, like  many  mortals,  126;  one 
for  every  mood  of  man,  142;  sug- 
gestive value  of  names  for,  154; 
pursuit  of,  and  pursuit  of  thought, 
289;  necessity  of,  to  bees.  374; 
never  idle,  5,  98;  female,  colors  of. 
103;  a  method  of  searching  for. 
139;  out  in  advance  of  the  rest  of 
their  kind,  170;  the  colors  of  the 
sunlight,  185;  white,  at  night,  277; 
emblematical  of  purity,  283;  and 
the  scythe,  339;  of  August  and 
September,  character  of,  355;  few 
perfect  specimens  of,  361;  widely 
dispersed,  410;  preparing  for 
spring,  475;  prevalence  of  yellow  in 
late  summer,  6,  433;  colors  of,  on 
cloudy  days,  7,  34;  the  earliest, 
295,  8,  240,  9,  283;  their  depend- 
ence on  the  season,  8.  241;  fertile 
and  barren,  0«  361;  effect  of  man's 
Ufe  on,  12,  343.  See  aUo  Plants. 

Flume,  the,  in  Franconia  Nt>tch,  1, 
91.4,303. 

*•  Flusterer,"  8,  308. 

Flute,  sound  of,  on  the  river,  1,  271, 
272;  echo  of,  375;  a  beautiful 
communication,  2,  12;  fit  sound  at 
evening,  4,  108;  foreign  to  trading 
world,  144. 

Flycatcher,  olive-sided,  or  pe-pe  iMu9- 
cicapa  Cooperi),  7,  379,  415,  416, 8, 
370.  9,  408,  13,  313;  notes  of,  8, 
363.  365. 

Foam,  in  a  brook,  3,  300;  on  a  pond- 
shore,  14,  62,  63. 
^Foes,  not  dangerous,  1,  213. 

Fog.  the  season  of  morning  fogs,  3, 
333;    ambrosial,  334;    the  fairest 


days  bom  in  a,  334;  Uie  dreams  of 
the  meadow.  3,  40;  bird-songs  in, 
4,  197.  198;  touchstone  of  health. 
198;  battalions  of.  254;  cows  in, 
254;  topography  established  by, 
255;  a  sea  of,  255;  levelling  effects 
of,  256,  257;  at  the  end  of  May.  5, 
209;  on  Wachusett,  216.  217;  a 
peculiar,  233.  234;  an  ocean  of,  6, 
361;  sounds  in,  7,  187;  composi- 
tion of,  8,  247,  248;  on  the  Cape, 
9,  448,  449;  deceptiveness  of,  455; 
in  the  White  Mountains,  11,  21-23; 
crsrstallising.  398, 399;  origin  of.  12, 
39;  phenomenon  of,  over  water. 
13,  65;  a  local,  349;  seen  from 
Mt.  Monadnock,  14,  23.  24;  the 
geography  of,  23,  24. 

"Fog,"  verse,  1,  457. 

Fogg,  landlord  at  Moosehead  Lake. 
9,489. 

Folger,  Peter,  7,  97. 

Foliage,  reflections  from,  4,  151;  ap- 
pearance of,  in  August,  6,  448;  eif- 
feet  of  drought  on  coloring  of,  478; 
transparent,  7, 372.  See  aUo  Leaves. 

Food,  nature's  bill  of  fare,  12,  398. 
See  aUo  Diet. 

Fools,  singing  of,  1,  237. 

Foot,  track  of  a  bare  human  foot  in 
the  dust,  2,  328. 

Footpaths,  the  charm  of,  2,  455,  456. 

Foreigner,  tracks  of,  7,  202. 

Forest,  the  cathedral  of  the,  11,  353; 
origin  of  the  word,  386. 

Forest  trees,  investigations  of  the  suc- 
cession of,  8,  315,  335,  363.  10,  40, 
41, 14,  70-73,  104.  See  aUo  Wood- 
lots. 

Forester,  Frank,  quoted,  7,  440,  9, 
300,301. 

Forestry,  in  England  and  in  New 
England,  14,  71. 

"Forever  in  my  dream  and  in  my 
morning  thought,"  verse,  10,  144. 

Forget-me-not,  mouse-ear,  beauty  of, 
4,91. 

Formalist,  a,  2,  465. 

Fort  Independence,  2,  81. 

Fortifications,  air.  of  antiquity  of,  2, 
399;  a  bungling  contrivance,  400. 

Forts,  at  Hull,  2,  344. 

Forum,  the  Roman,  1,  84. 

Foss,  A.  D.,  5,  263-265. 

Foster,  Rev.  Daniel,  prays  at  the 
wharf  at  the  time  of  the  rendition 
of  Sims.  2, 176;  Dr.  B.  and  R.  Rice 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


383 


on,  3,  225;  success  of,  229;  on  Na- 
ture. 234. 

"Four-footed  Beasts,  History  of," 
quoted,  13,  149-153. 

Fowls,  resemblance  of  voices  of,  4, 
416. 

Fox,  1,  89,  421.  8,  76,  158,  171,  12, 
127;  tracks  of,  1,  185-187,  6,  84, 
97,  98, 7,  151-153, 8,  47,  48,  78,  79, 
158,  176,9,  197,  198, 13,  73-76,  80, 
81,  100,  123;  a  burrowing  man,  1, 
396;  an  anachronism,  470;  sus- 
pects mystery,  470;  the  dog  of  the 
woods.  2,  461;  dung  of,  fi^,  242.  7, 
215. 13,  373,  14,  92,  93,  232;  scent 
of,  6, 139;  on  Nantucket,  7,95;  Mi- 
notton  varieties  of,  154;  drowning  a 
dog,  154, 11,  387;  lover  of  the  sun, 
7,  169;  catching  mice,  174;  seen 
on  the  railroad,  8, 175, 176;  gait  of, 
176;  feigning  death,  308;  inde- 
pendence of,  10,  206;  exponent  of 
triumph  over  obstacles,  228;  bark 
of,  251;  compared  with  the  dog, 
253;  eating  turtles,  429;  a  family, 
433-437;  as  a  destroyer  of  hornets' 
nests,  11,  168;  hunting  musquash, 
408;  a  large  hole,  12,  129;  circum- 
stantial evidence  against,  13,  73- 
76;  mouse  rejected  by,  80;  pur- 
sued by  crows,  88;  throwing  dogs 
off  the  scent,  100,  101;  chasing 
a  white  rabbit,  104;  escaping  from 
a  hound,  104;  searching  for  food, 
123,  124;  a  younger  son  of  a  noble 
family,  124;  suspicious  of  a  dead 
cow,  153,  154;  eating  a  skunk,  205; 
path  of.  361 ;  source  of  his  cunning, 
377;  elasticity  of,  397,  398;  and 
shrews,  14,  90;  weight  of.  167;  at- 
titude of.  toward  dogs.  339.  340. 

Fox.  arctic,  4,  82. 

Fox,  black,  14,  77. 

Fox,  cross,  12,  150. 

Fox,  "Sampson,"  7,  154. 

Fox,  «ilver-gray.  8,  192. 

Fox-skins,  8,  191. 

Fragrance,  related  to  justness,  4,  32; 
an  elusive  fragrance  from  the 
meadows,  59,  60,  89,  117,  9,  383; 
an  unaccountable,  7,  361.  See  also 
Odors. 
V.  Franconia  (N-  H.>,  1,  91, 11,  41. 

Franconia  Mountains,  forms  of,  11, 
52,  53. 

Franklin,  Sir  John.  3,  365«  6,  140, 
210- 


Freedom,  the  essence  of,  2,  162;  the    / 
true,  10,  404,  405. 

Freeman,  Brister,  1,  429. 

Freetown,  7,  465,  9,  327,  328  note, 
335. 

French,  the,  their  reason  for  coming     / 
to  America,  3,  287;   their  respect 
for  the  Indians,  289. 

French  names,  2,  335.  336. 

French's  Hotel,  7,  73. 

"  Freshet,  The,"  verse,  1,  122. 

Freshets.   See  Floods. 

Friday,  Ck)ld.   See  Cold  Friday. 

Friends,  affinity  of,  1,  113,  114;  in-  ^ 
fiuencing,  166;  always  strangers, 
181,  182;  the  value  of,  189;  as  pub- 
lic speakers,  197;  more  dangerous 
than  foes,  214;  how  reconciled.  281 ; 
solitude  and,  220,  221;  coldness 
of,  339;  communications  between, 
340;  inaccessibility  of,  439;  vested 
with  full  powers,  440;  frankness  of 
the  ideal  friend,  442;  unnoticed 
kindnesses  of,  456;  kinship  of,  468; 
not  missed  when  absent,  2,  48; 
loved  best  when  absent,  98;  absent 
and  present,  109;  how  lost,  143; 
apostrophe  to  a  friend,  3,  61,  62; 
subtler  part  of,  133;  wounded  by, 
139;  difficulties  with,  146;  infre- 
quent calls  of,  150;  an  unspoken 
apology  to  a  friend,  167;  want  of 
faith  of,  265;  the  need  of  sincerity 
between,  4,  313-315;  my  friend's 
apprehension  of  me,  397;  incom- 
patible, 6,  86,  87;  the  unfound 
friend,  7,  416,  417;  diverging  paths 
of.  8,  230-232;  disappointing,  348; 
shortcomings  of  certain,  9,  400; 
d^ree  of  love  for,  10, 172;  quarrels 
with,  11,  275;  best  enjoyed  in  ab- 
sence, 281 ,  283. 

Friendship,  thoughts  on,  1,  107.  108; 
the  foundation  of  romance,  121; 
obligations  of.  125;  consecration 
of.  154;  mutual  superiority  in,  235; 
melody  in,  243;  antiquity  of,  246; 
free  addresses  of,  327;  the  ground 
for,  340;  demands  of.  348;  a  pro- 
mise, 352;  nakedness  of,  440;  a 
phenomenon,  448;  tenderness  of, 
462;  impossible  to  formulate,  469; 
reserves  in,  2,  161.  162;  real  com- 
munity in,  183,  184;  mutual  un- 
derstanding in,  3,  83;  cessation  of, 
141;  the  arch  of,  258.  259;  loyalty 
in,  262;   need  of,  304;  necessary  to 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


884 


INDEX 


comprehension  of  nature,  4,  163;  a 
great  relation,  314;  its  dependence 
on  love,  348;  disappointments  in, 
8,  199;  ending  of  a.  9,  249.  250; 
comment  on,  272;  dissertation  on, 
276-278,  279;  the  price  of,  479- 
481;  sympathy  in,  11,  461,  452. 

"Friendship,"  verse,  1,  242. 

"Friendship's  Steadfastness,"  verse, 
1,248. 

Fries,  Elias  Magnus,  3,  286.  287. 

Fringed  orchis.   See  Orchis. 

Fringilla  hyemaiia,  or  hyemalis,  or 
blue  snowbird,  or  slate-colored 
snowbird,  or  slate-colored  sparrow, 
3,  357,  358.  6,  40,  60.  58,  6,  181, 
212.  7,  302,  8,  7,  10,  66.  201,  297; 
notes  of,  3,  373, 410,  5,  32,  83,  94, 
6,  169,  176,  7,  60,  260,  8,  250,  9, 
297. 10,  203,  308,  309, 11,  374,  1», 
71;  nest  of,  on  Mt.  Monadnock,  10, 

455,  456;      breeding-grounds    of, 

456,  457;  in  the  White  Mountains, 
11,  51;  stretching,  12,  68;  on  Mt. 
Monadnock,  14,  33,  52. 

Fringilla  juncorum.  See  Sparrow, 
field. 

Fringilla  linaria.  See  Redpoll,  lesser. 

Fringilla  nulodia.  See  Sparrow,  song. 

Fringilla  pa8»erinat  See  Sparrow, 
yellow-winged. 

Fringilla  pueiUa.   See  Sparrow,  field. 

Frog,  dream.  See  Toad. 

Frog,  peeping.    See  Hyla.  peeping. 

Frog,  Rana  fontinalia,  10,  374,  11, 
192, 12,  80. 

Frog,  Rana  halecina,  10,  26,  342, 
355-357,  397.  12, 140;  notes  of,  7, 
286.  10,. 346-348;  spawn  of,  355, 
356,  360-362,  373,  378, 383;  breed- 
ing, 360,  361;  dropping  water,  11, 
107. 

Frog,  Rana  palustria,  7,  245,  8,  271. 
424;  notes  of,  6,  460,  461,  473,  9, 
359,  10,  388,  390.  391,  394,  401- 
403,  13,  325;  descriptions  of  male 
and  female,  10,  381,  382, 394;  scent 
of,  391,  402;  breeding,  400;  spawn 
of,  400,  415. 

Frog,  shad,  4,  161. 

Frog,  wood  or  croaking,  4,  74,  162, 6, 
57. 10, 101, 333, 11,  91, 12, 103, 13, 
234;  croaking  of,  6,  87,  88,  6,  188, 
189,  7,  304. 9,  312,  313, 12,  78,  79. 
13, 195, 196;  examined  in  the  hand, 
10, 31 ,  32  and  note;  as  philosopher, 
154;  breeding,  351-355;  spawn  of. 


364,  372,  373;  tadpoles  hatching. 
372, 373;  the  weather-wise,  12, 
79. 

Frog-spawn,  3, 478, 5, 124.9, 318, 10, 
380,  396.  467,  468,  U,  141. 

Frogs,  10,  384,  385,  401, 11,  345,  346; 
and  men,  2,  207;  and  the  seasons, 
250;  shyness  of.  3,  392;  earthy 
sound  of.  4,  8;  birds  of  night,  14; 
eyes  of,  34, 13,  407;  snoring  of,  4, 
45,  7,  311;  morning  song  of,  4, 
69;  slowness  and  precipitancy  of, 
125;  marked  for  concealment,  162; 
fondness  for  springs,  221;  killed  in 
their  nibernacula,  5,  42;  a  remark- 
able note  of,  45;  preferred  to  Dr. 
Chalmers,  58;  notes  of ,  6*  283, 307, 
8,  354;  brought  out  by  warmth,  7, 
318;  hibernating,  8,  105,  10,  328; 
first  note  of,  in  spring,  9,  301;  curi- 
ous mortality  among,  476;  the 
study  of,  10,  375;  sensitive  to  cold, 
382.  388;  water  supply  of  the.  11, 
107.  108;  in  target-weed.  160;  the 
breeding-note  of  the  frog.  12,  141; 
leaping.  217.  218;  in  a  well,  13, 
183,  184;  just  developed  from 
pollywogs,  411;  of  Mt.  Monad- 
nock, 14,  35,  36.  See  aUo  Bullfrog. 

Frogs,  unidentified,  4,  34,  5,  106, 8, 
286,  9,  353, 10,  401,  402,  488,  508. 

Froissart's  Chronicles,  2,  429. 

Frost,  3,  15,  4,  451.6,  62.  63,  7,  279; 
on  cistus,  4,  428.  5,  483,  484,  8, 
10,  11,  316,  317;  peUets  of,  6,  62; 
measurements  of  depth  of,  6,  138; 
139;  on  windows.  7,  172, 8,  49.  99, 
10,  209;  on  trees,  7,  179,  11,  398- 
400.  403-407;  feather.  7,  185;  on 
bare  russet  grass.  229;  melting, 
325;  frozen  fog.  8,  74;  effect  on 
foliage.  9,  14.  57. 11,  164;  the  dy- 
ing breath  of  water,  9,  190,  191; 
coming  out  of  the  ground.  312;  in 
July.  465;  effect  of  one  night  of,  10, 
29;  in  August.  11, 115;  a  bark-like 
formation  of,  312;  congealed  breath 
of  earth,  317.  318;  a  breeder  of 
rain,  12,  58,  59;  foe  to  summer, 
295,296. 

Frost,  Rev.  Barzillai,3,  171. 

Frost,  Charles  C.  (?),  of  Brattleboro, 
Vt..  7,  103. 9,  62,  64,  66,  67,  69,  70. 

Frostweed.  See  Cistus. 

Fruit,  origin  and  meaning  of  the  word, 
14,  273. 

Fruits,  forms  of,  in  the  snow,  1, 183; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


S85 


as  typical  as  flowers.  4,  306,  307; 
fragrance  of,  309;  the  season  of 
small,  6,  363,  364;  eaten. in  the 
open  air,  7,  620,  526;  elements 
composing,  10,  49,  50;  bloom  on, 
162;  disappearance  of  wild,  11,  79; 
status  of  dififerent  varieties  in  au- 
tumn, 12,  380-383;  native  and 
tropical,  14,  261,  262;  native,  274; 
commerce  and,  277,  278. 

Fry,  William  Henry,  7,  76. 

Fuegians.    See  Tierra  del  Fu^o. 

Fuel,  prices  of,  2,  201;  gathering  and 
buying  compared,  5,  444-446;  a 
boat-load  of,  7,  459,  460;  collect- 
ing, 462.  502,  8, 12, 10, 116;  enjoy- 
ment gained  from,  18,  29,  30. 
S  Fugitive  Slave  Law,  2,   176,  177,  6, 

362,  363. 
>^  Fuller,    Margaret,  3,  114;    a   search 
for  the  remains  of,  2,  43  note;  and 
the  Sortes  Virgilianae,  3,  134. 

Fuller,  Thomas,  1,  238. 

Fumitory,  common,  4,  97. 

Funerals,  customs  of,  4,  277. 

Fungi,  4,  352,  386,  8,  306,  332,  14, 
173;  their  place  in  botany,  5,  21; 
dissolving,  374,  375;  decaying, 
smell  of,  415;  shelf-shaped,  503; 
scent  of  decaying,  7,  30,  9,  16;  a 
melting  fungus,  8,  376;  tints  of,  9, 
50;  an  offensive  fungus,  115-117; 
as  hygrometers,  282;  on  trees,  334; 
a  remarkable  fungus,  10,  6;  like 
asbestos,  205;  on  aspens,  267;  their 
interest  as  living  things,  11,  204; 
in  dry  weather,  12,  294;  a  fungus 
in  a  wine-cellar,  377,  378;  on  gold- 
enrod.  14,  93.  See  also  Puffballs 
and  Toadstools. 

Fungus,  birch.  8,  9, 10,  248, 12,  456; 
used  by  shoemakers,  4, 172;  growth 
of.  10,  259,  260. 

Fungus,  election-cake,  5,  343, 0,  128. 

Fungus,  geiropodium.  6,  150.  14,  95. 

Fungus,  spunk,  6,  218.9,  117. 

Fungus,  star.  See  Puffball,  star- 
fingered. 

Fungus,  winkle  {Auricularia) ,  6, 136, 
196,  197,  199,9,341. 
^  Fur  trade,  12,  121-124. 

Furness,  Mr.,  of  Philadelphia.  7,  74. 

Furniture,  old,  10,  59. 

Future,  past  and.  2,  229, 13,  17,  18. 

Galapagos  Archipelago,  2,  262. 
Galium  Aparine,  9,  388. 


Galium  circcezana,  10,  12,  13. 

Galium  trifidum,  8,  408. 

Galium  triflorum,  4,  196,  8,  404. 

Gall,  Castile-soap,  4,  342, 6,  477,  488, 
7,  10, 9,  60, 14,  63. 

Gall,  pincushion,  6,  168,  6,  279,  304, 
305,  321;  beautiful  scarlet  sins,  5, 
210. 

Gall-flies,  14,  163;  eggs  of.  6,  483. 

Galls,  3,  432, 6,  249, 7,  33,  34, 8,  116. 
9, 15, 13, 359;  on  willows,  5,  52;  on 
goldenrod,  349,  8,  450;  on  hickory 
leaves.  5,  350;  on  shrub  oak  stems, 
.376;  dome-shaped.  7,  14.  See  aUo 
Oak-apples  and  Oak-balls. 

Gambrel,  origin  of  name,  7,  479,  480. 

Games,  boys',  10,  155. 

Garden,  a  large  and  attractive,  2,  38. 

Gardener,  the,  1,  473. 

Gardiner,  Edmund,  7,  92. 

Gardiner,  Capt.  Edward  W.,  7, 91-96. 

Gardner,  Rev.  John,  14,  274,  275. 

Garfield,  of  Concord,  7,  353,  11,  302,  \ 
12,  46;   talks  with,  7,  25,  26,  10, 
195;    house  of,  349;    his  trapping, 
12,  43. 

Garfield,  Daniel,  7,  283, 12,  212. 

Garfield,  Edward,  a  talk  with,  8, 129, 
170-173,  175. 

Garfield,  Isaac,  a  talk  with,  8,  109- 
173,  175. 

Garfield,  John,  2,  63. 

Garfields,  one  of  the,  talk  with,  8, 
304. 

Garlick,  Theodatus,  10,  379. 

Garnets,  10,  465. 

Garrisob,  of  Concord,  6,  128. 

Garrison.  William  Lloyd,  3,  38,  225,     .. 
6,  365. 

Gay  Head  lighthouse.  8,  393. 

Gaylussacia.  the  genus.  14,  297. 

Gaylusaacia  dumosa  var.  hirtella.  See 
Huqkleberry,  hairy. 

Geiropodium,  6,  150.  14,  95. 

Genealogist,  an  old.  7,  95,  96. 

Genealogy,  Alcott's  study  of.  4,  292- 
294. 

Generation,  spontaneous,  14,  333.     ^ 

Generosity,  essential,  1,  241.  ~ 

Genii,  1,  57. 

Genista  tinctoria^or  broom,  9,  6,  10, 
510,11,76.12,18.14,91. 

Genius,  solitariness  of.  1,  93;  va- 
rious phenomena  of.  124;  veraue 
learning.  147.  148;  work  of.  275; 
peculiarity  of  a  work  of.  3,  236;  the 

■      abundance  of  life  or  health,  4,  218; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


386 


INDEX 


bom  with  a  great  head,  340;  a  com- 
mon  privilege,  422;  above  nature, 
69  170;  suggestions  of  one's,  0.  36, 
37;  evanescent  boundaries  of,  265; 
likened  to  a  paint-brush,  11,  89; 
hermaphroditic,  204;  wildness  of, 
450.  451. 

Geniuses,  maimed.  S,  334, 335;  a  talk 
with  Cluu-les  DunlMu*  on,  4, 440;  the 
country  genius,  11,  269,  270. 

Gentian,  closed  (Andrewni),  11^183. 

Gentian,  fringed,  7,  45. 9, 83,  85. 143, 
11,  158,  204;  charm  of,  4,  390,391; 
at  night,  391;  short  career  of,  5, 
500,  501;  beauty  of,  U,  189. 

Gentian,  soapwort,  4,  356,  5,  416. 

Gentleman,  the,  2,  329;  tracks  of,  7, 
196. 

Gentlemen,  12,  31. 

Geology,  2,  405. 

George,  the  carpent^,  10,  417. 

Geranium,  wild,  4,  102,  115,  266; 
habitat  of,  76;  opening  buds  of,  5, 
192. 

Oeranium  RoberHanum,  10,  453. 

Gerard,  John,  14,  92, 119;  his  Herbal, 
13,  29,  30. 

Gerard,  Jules,  the  lion-killer,  8,  403, 
404,421. 

Gerardia,  bushy,  4,  329. 

Cferardia  flava,  5,  361. 

Gerardia  pedicularia,  9,  16. 

Oerardia  quercifolia,  5,  361. 

Oemrdia  tenuifolia,  10,  17. 

Gesner,  Conrad,  3,  118;  quoted,  13, 
149-153;  his  point  of  view  toward 
animals,  167,  168. 

Oeum  radiaium,  11,  23. 

Ghost-horse,  4,  316,  317, 11,  184, 12, 
73. 

Giant,  a.3, 202. 203, 205, 206, 10, 131, 
132 

Gibbs.  John,  7,  97. 

Giddings,  Joshua  R.,  12,  439. 

Gififord's  Union  House,  7,  432. 

Gilpin,  William,  on  copses,  3,  366; 
on  mist,  and  on  the  rising  and  set- 
ting sun,  369;  his  *'  Forest  Scener>'," 
370,  373;  on  the  hart-royal,  414, 
415;  on  the  flight  of  water-fowl, 
416;  on  docking  Worses'  tails,  419; 
on  the  "flawing"  of  dogs,  419;  on 
the  flight  of  birds,  420;  on  the 
black-cock,  427;  on  near  distances. 
444;  style  of,  4,  283,  284;  on  tra- 
gedy, 335;  on  Loch  Fyne,  338;  on 
mountain  distances,  339.  340;    on 


woods  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  394;  on 
drawing,  6,  53;  on  the  picturesque, 
55-59;  on  the  relations  of  beauty 
and  morality,  58,  59;  his  aesthetics 
criticised,  103;  on  lichens,  11,  297. 

Gilson,  the  Littleton  miller,  9,  360, 
361. 

Gin.  how  flavored,  14,  278. 

Ginkgo,  leaf  of,  7,  64. 

Ginseng.  2,  221,  232;  sale  of,  9,  78.        , 

Girard,  Charles,  11,  348.  / 

Girard  College.  7,  74. 

Giraud.  J.  P..  quoted.  13,  420,  421. 

Girls,  two  bright  Irish-Ammcan,  7, 
467.  468;  a  nature-loving  girl,  9, 
335,336. 

Glade,  meaning  of  the  word.  10,  53. 

Gladness,  righteousness  of.  4,  446. 

Glass,  beauty  of.  4,  186.  187;  achro- 
matic. 6,  167. 

Glass  (telescope),  use  of,  on  moun- 
tains, 4,  392.  See  alao  Telescopes. 

Glaze.  See  Ice. 

Gleason,  Mr.,  2,  167. 

Glen  House,  White  Mountains,  U,  14 

Gloucester,  U,  187,  188. 

Glow-worm,  added  to  fireflies.  4,  145, 
259,  260, 10,  3-5,  33.  34,  248,  11, 
338. 

Glycerin  fluHane,  11,  289. 

GnaphaUum.  See  Everlasting. 

Gnats,  7,  336,  340,  8,  322;  in  their 
hibernaculum,  5,  18;  dancing 
swarms  of,  9,  123, 124, 10,  307, 11, 
160.  299. 12. 106.  206. 13, 206;  in  a 
cobweb.  9, 339;  hum  of.  11, 229. 12, 
148;  covering  the  ground  in  masses, 
12, 183. 

Goat,  hardness  of  head  of,  8,  25.  >^ 

God,  trust  in,  1,  180;  in  nature,  185, 
2,  472;  the  seals  of  His  power,  1, 
188;  the  voice  of,  227;  love  for,  and 
love  for  man,  228;  is  mystery,  231; 
calmness  of.  315 ;  generous  of 
happiness.  328;  Hindoo  and  He- 
brew ideas  of.  2,  3,  4;  false  concep- 
tion of.  3,  119;  spelled  with  a  little 
g,  179;  liberties  with  the  name  of, 
256;  the  universal  appeal  to,  335; 
design  of,  in  imiverse,  368;  abettor 
of  Cadmus.  6,  133;  in  man,  9,  250; 
an  artist,  10,  159;  maker  of  the 
dewdrop  and  snowflake,  239,  240; 
not  glorified,  363,  364;  patronised, 
11,  324;  worship  of,  12,  23;  as  a 
stranger,  28;  man's  manner  of 
glorifying,  170, 171. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


INDEX 


S87 


Gods,  the,  favore  of.  1, 365;  commuDi- 
cations  from,  8,  269. 

Goffstown  (N.  H.),  14,  39. 
^Gold,  the  true  value  of,  3,  291;  the 
false  and  the  true,  7,  491,  492,  496; 
the  value  attached  to,  14,  117-119. 

Gold-diggers,  3,  329,  330.  7,  491;  the 
finder  of  the  great  Australian  nug- 
get, 600,  601. 

Gold-diggings,  the  Australian,  7,  491. 
-  Golden-eye,  or  whistler,  6, 183,7,  314- 
316, 1»,  71. 

Goldenrod,  2,  103,  104,  5,  340,  7,  48; 
preaches  of  the  lapse  of  time,  4, 
226;  list  of,  in  order  of  blooming, 
5,  396,  397;  fruit  of  the  sun,  403, 
404;  unidentified  species  of,  420, 
422;  radical  leaves  of,  in  May,  6, 
258;  status  of  various  species, 
Sept.  24th,  9,  89;  status  of  various 
species,  Oct.  8th,  106;  tenderness 
of,  13,  209;  heads  of,  in  winter,  442; 
of  Mt.  Monadnock.  14,  31. 

Goldenrod,  blue-stemmed,  4,  361, 
401,  11,  307;  fungus  spots  on,  14, 
93. 

Goldenrod,  early  (Solidago  stricta),  5, 
363,9,36. 

Goldenrod,  gray,  in  October,  5,  484; 
fuzz  of,  6,  51. 

Goldenrod,  seaside,  9,  135. 

Goldenrod,  sweet-scented  {S.  odora), 
2,  220,  5,  361,  362,  403. 

Goldenrod,  tall  rough,  in  winter,  8, 
73. 

Goldenrod,  white,  4,  401. 

Goldenrod  (S.  argtUa),  5,  362,  6,  445, 
9,65. 

Goldenrod  (S.  nemorcUia),  6,  391,  408, 
455, 11,  306. 12,  321. 

Goldenrod  (S.  puberula),  ff,  398.  12, 
^63. 

Goldenrod  (S.  rigida),  10,  30.  31. 

Goldfinch,  2,  350.  4,  251, 6,  236,  440, 
7,  224,  292,  8,  342.  424,  9,  31.  10, 
99,  11,  374.  12,  80,  146;  on  grass 
stems,  3,  29.  30;  notes  of,  4,  278, 
5,  150,  357,  365,  6,  430,  8,  458. 10, 
377,  378.  11,  93.  374.  12,  266;  in 
the  White  Mountains.  11,  7;  nest 
of.  85,  86.  88.  89;  flight  of.  103; 
feeding  in  the  snow,  395;  a  "  lettuce- 
bird,"  12,  446;  food  of,  13,  79  and 
note. 

Gold-thread,  4,  57, 9,  78. 

Goodman's  Hill,  view  from,  2,  26, 
27. 


Goodness,  1,  119;  as  an  investment, 
5,293. 

Goodnow  &  How,  store  of,  6,  94. 

Goodwin,  John,  5,  444,  447.  507.  6, 
163,  8,  168,  197,  307,  9,  170.  199. 
10,  384,  11,  309;  hunting  propen- 
sities of.  6,  233,  240;  back  from 
Cape  Cod.  7,  43;  shooting  musk- 
rats,  131.  132,  8,  266-259. 10,  140; 
out  shooting,  8, 38;  on  rabbits,  78; 
tells  a  fish  story,  115,  116;  and  a 
partridge,  9,  272;  fishing,  11,  109; 
the  one-eyed  Ajax,  283,  284;  guess- 
ing ages  with,  289;  tells  of  a  sui- 
cide, 294;  cheeriness  of,  351;  talks 
of  Therien's  tea-drinking,  12,  455. 

Goodyera  pubeaceru.  See  Rattle- 
snake-plantain. 

Goosander,  a  male  found  dead,  7, 287, 
288;  description  of.  288-290;  skin- 
ning and  stuffing  the  bird,  291, 292. 
296;  a  pair,  291,  329;  like  a  paddle- 
wheel  steamer,  12,  77.  See  also 
Sheldrake. 

Goose,  wild,  1, 130, 3,  436,  439, 5,  53, 
511,  618,  7,  71,  72,  299,  322, 8,  31, 
10,  169.  170.  376,  377.  11,  242; 
honking  of,  1,  401.  402.  422, 7, 258; 
at  Walden,  3,  360;  the  spring  and 
autumn  flocks  of,  418;  watching 
a  flock  of,  434, 435;  swept  north  on 
storms,  4.  19;  William  Wood  on, 
7,  136;  three  harrows  uniting,  89 
22;  flying  over  cities,  46;  large 
flocks  of,  9,  447;  the  air  full  of 
geese,  10,  216. 217;  Minott  and  the 
box  of  wild  geese,  265;  caring  for 
their  wounded,  378;  Channing's 
description  of  a  flock,  12,  80;  on 
the  meadow,  94;  flocks  in  flight, 
94,  96;  migration  of,  99;  experi- 
enced in  gunning  matters,  99. 

Goose  Pond,  2,  87. 

Goosefoot,  7,  443. 

Gordon,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  his  bound- 
ary dispute,  10,  172,  173,  176, 
177. 

Goshawk,  American,  5,  114,  6,  184. 

Gosnold,  Bartholomew,  3,  373. 

Gossamer  (spider's  web), 3, 87,9, 128, 
268.  269.  271, 10,  327. 11,  311.  322. 
13,  197,  198. 

Gosse,  Philip  Henry,  his  "Letters 
from  Alabama."  quoted,  14,  311. 

Gould.  John,  6,  110. 

Government,  the  best.  2,  412,  413; 
functions  of,  6,  355-358. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


888 


INDEX 


GSoverament,  United  States,  and 
slavery,  12,  4(»-411. 

Governor,  functions  of  the,  6,  340. 

Governor  Neptune,  a  steamer,  5,  457. 

Gower,  John,  1,  450. 

Gowing's  Swamp,  description  of,  with 
map,6t467,408;  vegetation  in,  10, 
196,  197;  map  of,  13,  125. 

Grace,  undulatory,  1,  441. 

Grackle,  rusty.  See  Blackbird,  rusty. 

Grain,  growing  of,  on  Cape  Ckxi,  9, 
436. 

Grain-fields,  independent  of  utility,  1, 
401. 

Grape,  method  of  setting  out,  1, 
286. 

Gn4>e,  wild,  perfume  of  flowers  of, 
4,117;  leaf-buds  of ,  6,  266;  leaves 
of,  frost-bitten,  7,  50;  on  the  banks 
of  the  Connecticut,  0,  64. 

Grapes,  wild,  7,  5.  9,  93.  137,  138, 
10,  106;  fragrance  of,  6,  417,  418, 
437,  7,  23.  27,  9,  81;  gathering,  7, 
24,  25,  27,  28,  9,  81,  U,  165,  192, 
12,  324. 

Grape-vines,  wild,  likened  to  parasols, 
2,  490;  with  leaves  turned  up  by 
the  wind,  6,  425;  a  large  vine,  8, 
392,  393. 

Grass,  the  year's  history  written  in, 
2,  481;  green,  in  winter,  3,  189, 
betraying  sun's  chemistry,  393; 
growing  under  snow,  418;  fiery 
green,  472;  reflections  from,  4,  98; 
relative  wetness  after  rain  and  dew, 
130;  blades  floating  flat  on  water, 
ff,  59, 90, 7,  338, 8,  321 , 9,  293;  the 
first  tinge  of  green  in,  6,  170;  after 
rain  in  spring,  7,  279;  moss-like 
tufts  of,  303;  like  a  green  flame,  8, 
291;  the  birth  of,  291;  in  winter,  9, 
184;  the  first  blush  of  spring,  293; 
like  mourning  tresses,  10,  116; 
various  shades  in,  445;  killed  by 
meadow  mud,  11,  234;  a  sea  of,  in 
the  wind,  13,  385,  386. 

Grass,  bent,  reflections  from,  4,  151; 
habits  of,  6,  292.  293. 

Grass,  blue-eyed.  2,  269,  4,  173,  5, 
199;  beauty  of,  92;  a  guide  to 
dry  places,  13,  374. 

Grass,  early  purple,  8,  321. 

Grass,  lake,  growing  under  ice,  7, 293; 
Ijring  on  the  water.  338. 

Grass  balls.  4,  377.  6,  456.  7,  444,  8, 
423.  425, 9,  237. 10,  355. 

Grass-bird.  jSee  Bay-wing. 


Grasses,  8,  80,  86,  U,  103,  123-126, 
145-147,  150,  151,  156,  210,  232, 
233,  307, 12,  217,  224, 13,  377,  392, 
395,397,399,401,402,442;  beauty 
of  dry,  2,  93,  112,  5,  529,  530; 
growth  of,  in  spring,  6,  303;  beauty 
of  purple,  431, 473, 11, 96, 125-127, 
147;  over  snow,  9, 159;  the  bleach- 
ing of.  11, 253, 254;  ice-coated,  365: 
checker-board  fields  of,  13,  .399, 
403;  luxuriousness  of  cultivated, 
403;  variety  of  color  in,  14,  3,  4; 
of  Mt.  Monadnock,  27,  28;  "dew- 
grass,"  76,  77.  See  cUeo  Herd's- 
grass,  June-grass,  Meadow-grass, 
and  Red-top. 

Grasshoppers,  7,  376,  377,  9,  60; 
curves  described  by  jumping.  4, 
140;  a  proposed  method  of  clearing 
a  field  of,  12,  332. 

Gratioki,  4,  185. 

Graveyard,  in  Lincoln,  2,  19,  20. 

Gray,  Asa,  3,  432,  474,  479,  8,  406,  ( 
432, 9,  67,  68. 11,  26  note,  12,  208; , 
quoted,  2,  201-205.  4,  90,  170,  7,/ 
53,  399,  406,  9,  482,  12,  252,  253, 
14,  120. 

Gray,  Thomas,  poetry  of,  1,  457. 

Great  Meadows.  2,  280;  seen  from 
Ball's  Hill,  3, 28;  flooded,  394-397, 
7,310,311. 

Great  men,  meetings  between,  1,  319, 
320;   the  insanity  of,  2,  11. 

Great  persons,  not  soon  learned,  1, 
347. 

"Greater  is  the  depth  of  sadness," 
verse,  1,  283. 

Greatness,  slow  to  be  known,  1,  202, 
203;  well  proportioned,  223;  re- 
pose of.  301;  and  decorum,  320. 

Grebe,  an  unidentified,  6,  28. 

Grebe,  little.  10,  247. 

Greece,  the  glory  of,  3, 319;  About  on 
the  delights  of.  10,  234. 

Greeks,  the.  simplicity  of.  1, 116, 117; 
traits  of,  165;  art  of,  167.  See  alao 
Mythology. 

Greeley,  Horace,  7,  76;  on  London, 
3,  209;  and  the  New  Testament, 
257.  "^ 

Green,  3, 379,  7, 280. 12, 162. 13, 157, 
14,  3,  4;  in  trees,  6,  384,  385;  of 
the  earth,  8,  243;  contrasts  with, 
12,  76. 

Green,  Isaiah,  3,  4,  5;  uneventful  life 
of,  9-11. 

Green,  John,  14,  275. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


389 


Green,  Thomas  A.,  7,  470,  8,  386, 
387. 

Gre«[i  Mountains,  seen  from  Mt.  Mo- 
nadnock,  14,  40. 

Green-briar,  or  cat-briar  (SmUax), 
berries  of,  2, 139, 7,  55;  thorn  of,  3, 
139;  climbing  powers  of,  417;  leaves 
compared  to  thoughts,  7,  27;  in 
November,  8,  13;  New  Bedford 
nam^  for,  9,  321. 

Greenough,  Horatio,  letter  of ,  on  archi- 
tecture, 3,  181-183. 

Grisi,  Giulia,  7,  76. 

Grist-mill,  an  old,  10,  87;  cobweb 
tapestry  in  a,  11,  363. 

Grosbeak,  pine,  3,  130,  153,  357,  8, 
43, 11,  50;  branches  of  ehns  killed 
by,  3,  352;  on  Mt.  Lafayette,  11, 
50. 

Grosbeak,  rose-breasted,  6,  302,  459, 

8,  351 ,0,  380,  381. 12, 258. 13,  395; 
first  meeting  with,  6, 246,247;  song 
of,  7,  384,  385,  8,  351,  U,  50,  12, 
202,  203;    nest  of,  198. 

Ground,  the  cracking  of,  in  cold,  4, 
409, 6,  149.  150, 9,  189,  195. 

Ground-hemlock.  See  Yew,  Ameri- 
can. 

Ground-nut,  4,  384,  10,  19.  12,  358, 
359. 

Ground-robin.   See  Chewink. 

Groundsel,  seeds  of,  2,  490, 3,  12. 

Groves,  sacredness  of,  12,  452. 

Growth,  1,  206. 

Grubs,  in  cattle,  4, 72,  73;  feeding  be- 
tween the  two  sides  of  a  leaf,  12, 
308,309. 

Guests,  entertainment  of,  10,  74. 

Guide,  choosing  a,  for  Maine  woods, 
9,486. 

Guilt,  establishment  of,  by  excuses, 
4,254. 

Guinea-fowl,  2,  228. 

Gulf  Stream,  7,  91. 

Gull,  mackerel,  on  Cape  Cod,  9,  451, 
452;  in  Concord,  12,  104,  149, 
150. 

Gulls,  3,  385,  .5,  25,  100.  7,  254,  283, 

9,  333,  10,  326.  12,  141;  notes  of, 
3,  392;  value  of,  to  scenery,  416, 
417;  in  the  eye  of  a  storm,  441; 
form  of,  6,  176,  177;  seen  against 
reflection  of  hills,  7,  310,  311;  a 
"black-headed"  gull,  10,  8;  mili- 
tary appearance  of,  317;  limping 
flifitht  of  a  large  gull,  12,  51;  shoot- 
^ing,  60;  sketch  of  a  gull,  78;  fly- 


ing up  or  down  the  river,  95;  stand- 
ing and  in  flight,  13, 197;  conspicu- 
ousness'of,  213. 

Gully,  the  word,  9,  142. 

Gun,  invention  of  the,  2,  377,  378; 
compared  with  a  spy-glass,  5,  66; 
sound  of  a.  8,  266;  different  kinds 
of,  9,  130,  300;  exhilarating  sound 
of,  11,  424. 

Gurnet,  the,  2,  354,  356. 

Guyot,  Arnold,  quoted,  2,  147,  148. 

Gypsies,  1,  195.  y 

Haddock,  his  adventures  in  the 
Canada  wilderness,  12,  397,  398. 

Hail,  in  South  America  and  India,  2, 
242. 

Hail-storms,  8,  289. 

Haines,  Mr.,  surveying  with,  12,  115. 

Haines  of  Sudbury,  fishing,  3,  290. 
See  aUo  Haynes. 

Hairworm,  7,  447. 

Hakon  the  Good,  3,  310. 

Hale,  of  Worcester,  8,  381. 

Hale,  Ai,  his  dog,  9,  26. 

Hales,  John.  1,  238. 

Hall,  telegraph-operator  at  Highland 
Light,  9,  446,  447. 

Hallam,  Henry,  1,  396. 

Haller,  Albrecht  von,  quoted,  3, 
181. 

Halley.  Edmund,  1,  238,  4,  486. 

Hallowell  (Me).,  1,  48. 

Hamlet,  the  charm  of,  2,  97. 

Hand-organs,  2,  218,  375,  377,  4,  45, 
46. 

Hangbird,  fiery.  See  Oriole,  Balti- 
more. 

Hapgood,  of  Acton,  2,  267. 

Happiness,  of  natural  objects,  9,  206. 
207;  relation  of,  to  physical  con- 
dition, 10,  227  ;  poverty  and,  14, 
277. 

Hard  times,  financial  failures  and 
panics,  10,  92. 

Hardback,  2,  309,  450,  4,  199,  432, 5, 
336.  7,  46,  47,  11,  116;  in  winter, 
7,  127,  8,  86;  leaves  standing  up, 
12,259;   seed  of,  13,  30,  31. 

Hare,  retreats  of,  7,  143;  poverty- 
stricken  appearance  of,  151;  the 
Welsh  word  for,  171.  See  also  Rab- 
bit. 

Hare,  gray,  in  deshabille,  5,  6.  Set 
also  Rabbit,  gray. 

Harebell,  2,  286. 

Harek  of  Thiott6, 3,  203. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


390 


INDEX 


Hari,  2,  4. 

Harivansa,  2,  190,  191. 

*'  Hark!  harki  from  out  the  thickest 
fog,"  vcree,  1,  74. 

Harlan,  Dr.  Richard,  quoted,  4,  401, 
10,  437. 

Harmony,  1,  392. 

Harp,  a  travelling  patterer,  5,  293. 

Harper  &  Brothers,  4,  325. 

••  Harper's  Magazine,"  quoted,  5,  513, 
9,  97,  100. 

Harrington,  of  Concord,  12,  248. 

Harris,  Dr.  T.  W.,  6,  467,  521, 6,  166, 
181 , 7, 80, 116, 139;  on  large  moths, 
4,  259;  on  glow-worms,  259,  260; 
Agassiz  on,  439;  on  Indian  com- 
modities, 490, 491 ;  on  AUacus  cecro- 
pia,  6,  73;  on  harvest-flies,  349; 
on  the  creaking  of  crickets,  10, 108. 

Hart-royal,  3,  414,  415. 

Harvard  Ck)llege  and  lotteries,  7, 150. 

Harvard  College  Library,  poetry  in, 
1,  288,  289.  See  also  Libraries. 

Harvest,  the  immense  ungathered,  11, 
244. 

Harvest  time,  suggestions  of  the,  6, 
486. 

Harvest-fly.  6,  349.  See  aUo  Locust. 

Harvey,  Capt.  John,  7,  326,  327. 

Hasnebumskit  Hill,  2,  224. 

Hastings,  bee-hunting  with,  4,  368- 
374;  selling  a  pair  of  boots,  9,  156. 

Hats,  a  hat  for  a  botany-box,  4,  133, 
9,  157;  men's  and  women's,  13, 
51,  52. 

Haverhill,  visita  to,  2,  7,  8,  10,  6, 
110-114;  the  French  and  Indian 
attack  on,  3,  282-286;  old  houses 
of  refuge  in,  5,  111;  bare  of  trees 
and  woods,  112;  a  freshet  at,  113, 
114;  fishing  at.  114. 

Hawaiian  Islands,  6,  410. 

Hawk,  Cooper's,  11,  366, 13, 297,  298; 
nest  of,  316,  317. 

Hawk,  fish,  1,  351  and  note,  8,  281- 
284, 10,  126,  385,  386,  12,  116, 14, 
87,  100;  fishing,  7,  72,  372,  373, 
375;  eating  prey,  308;  remnants  of 
feast  of,  308.  309,  378.  379;  beside  a 
crow,  308,  309;  notes  of,  309,  8, 
287, 10,  384,  12,  117;  flight  of.  7, 
309,  8,  281;  keen  vision  of,  9,  22; 
pursued  by  crows.  10,  392,  393, 
482;  with  a  fish.  12,  117.118;  like 
a  swallow,  14, 69;  skeleton  of,  110. 

Hawk,  marsh  or  frog,  or  hen-harrier, 
3,  463,6, 380, 7, 273,  350, 351, 378, 


8,  9,  234  note,  260,  297,  350,  10, 
331,  395.  487,  11,  69,  83;  young 
of,  at  play,  5,  340,  341;  notes  of, 
364,  9,  367,  10,  487;  skimming  a 
meadow,  7,  19;  catching  his  prey, 
174;  wings  of,  330,  10,  487, 12, 70; 
flight  of,  8,  262, 9, 367, 10, 134, 135, 
376, 13, 284;  a  pair  of,  9, 367;  hunt- 
ing, 10,  376;  eggs  of,  439,  449;  nest 
of,  448,  449, 487.  498. 13,  3^7,  318; 
circling  over  nest,  10,  487;  young 
of,  498;  pursuing  a  stake-driver, 
498;  a  pair  of,  11,  202;  feeding  mate 
and  young,  335;   beating  a  hedge, 

13,  212;  getting  a  new  mate,  318, 
328.329;  chasing  a  small  bird.  373; 
young  of,  384;  two  chased  by  a  crow, 

14,  107. 

Hawk,  partridge,  8,  195, 9,  110. 

Hawk,  pigeon,  6,  245. 7,  509,  510, 11, 
134. 12,  327  and  note,  13,  261, 14, 
338. 

Hawk,  red-shouldered,  11,  396-398. 

Hawk,  red-tailed.  5,  54.  55.  93, 7, 341, 
342,  345-350;  a  heavy  flier,  5,  90, 
91. 

Hawk,  sharp-shinned  (Falco  futciui), 
7,  312  and  note.  356.  363. 11,*  133, 
135.  366.  13,  258.  259;  with  nest 
and  young,  11,  62-64;  notes  of, 
62.  63. 

Hawk,  sparrow.  3,  17. 6,  245,  246, 8, 
354, 11,  217. 

Hawks,  flight  of  two  small,  1,  351;  in 
pairs.  3,  23;  screams  of.  23, 4, 103, 
6,  380,  418,  6,  386,  7,  227,  8,  438, 
437, 9,  76;  flight  of  circling,  3,  60, 
143.  145.  4,  353,  5,  74;  in  a  reptile 
state,  3,  108;  protectively  colored, 
463;  aspect  of  a  small  hawk  on 
ground,  4, 331, 332;  a  day  for,  352; 
betrayed  by  their  shadows,  352; 
to  be  looked  for  in  Concord,  5, 
60;  and  poultry,  83,  97;  Linnseus 
quoted  on,  83;  a  pair  and  their 
nest,  231-233;  a  young  hawk 
and  its  parents.  235,  236;  young, 
245;  worth  more  than  chickens, 
246;  screams  of  young,  380;  perch- 
ing on  pines,  384;  abundance  of, 
in  September,  10,  48;  pursuit  of, 
by  smaller  birds,  482;  encounter 
of  a  hawk  with  a  weasel,  13,  88. 
See  also  Hen-hawk. 

Hawks,  unidentified,  6,  195,  386,  7, 
330,  331. 8,  317, 9,  76, 12,  15,  108, 
327,  380. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


391- 


Hawkweed  (Hieracium  Canadenae),  5, 

407,  9,  97,  98. 
Hawkweed,    panieled   (H.    panicvla- 

tum),  3,  44,  6,  407. 
Hawkweeds,  4,  131. 
Haws.  See  Thorn. 
Hawthorn,  English,  6,  283,  9,  414. 
Hawthorne,  Julian,  6*  60. 
Hawthorne,  Nathaniel,  buys  T.'s  boat, 

1,  136  note;  borrows  T.'s  music- 
box,  317  note;  his  "The  Minister's 
Black  Veil, "  8,  327  note. 

Hay,  3,  287,  288;  a  bed  of,  445;  get- 
ting in  the,  5,  339,  340;  composi- 
tion of,  8,  443,  10,  237;  ruined  by 
flood,  9,  94,  95;  a  load  of,  14,  324. 

Haycock,  a  memento  of  summer,  3, 
189. 

Hayden,  of  Concord,  4,  39;  hauling 
stone  for  a  rich  man's  use,  251,  252. 

Hayden.  senior,  of  Concord,  on  quail 
in  the  barn-yard,  9,  243,  244;  har- 
diness of,  247;  his  elm,  247;  tells 
of  Moore's  willow  hedge,  251. 

Haying,  the  task  of,  in  New  England, 

2,  394,  395;  finished,  396;  meth- 
ods of  meadow-haying,  6,  422,  423, 
428,  429;   on  river  meadows,  11, 

.        121,  122. 

^Hayniakers,  early  labor  of,  2,  327. 

Haynes,  3,  411,  12,  167;  a  talk  with 
Emerson  about,  4,  15;  hunting  on 
the  river  with  Goodwin,  6,  233, 
240;  fishing,  7,  43, 12, 166,13,274. 

Haynes,  the  carpenter,  8,  350. 

Haynes,  the  lame,  a  fisherman,  11, 
233. 

Haynes,"  Heavy,"  12,  127,  151,  355, 
356;  once  a  fisherman  of  the  sea, 
11,  238. 

Haynes,  Nahum,  7,  432. 

Haynes  of  Sudbury,  and  his  axe- 
helves,  8,  197. 

Haynes  of  Sudbury,  a,  threshing,  14, 
201,  202. 

Hayneses,  the  two.  Concord  River 
fishermen,  11,  238. 

Haystacks,  forms  of,  7,  41. 

Haze,  a  view  seen  through,  4,  33; 
density  of,  measured,  155;  appear- 
ance of  trees  in,  6,  461,  462;  the 
smoke  of  the  earth,  491 ;  its  effect 
on  the  landscape,  7,  284;  Indian 
summer  and,  497;  announcing  sum- 
mer, 8,  253. 

Hazel,  flowers  of,  3,  423.  424,  437, 
464, 5,  66,  67, 80. 89, 467, 6, 188, 7, 


305. 8,  268,  276, 10,  325;  shedding 
pollen,  343;  silvery  armor  of,  11, 
307. 

Hazel,  beaked,  5,  83, 9,  332. 

Hazelnut,  beaked,  5,  419,  11,  154. 
193. 

Hazelnuts,  removing  berry  stains,  5, 
331;  harvested  by  squirrels.  11, 
132, 133, 143,  144;  burs  of  the,  132, 
155;  shapes  of  the  two  species,  193. 

Head,  Sir  Francis,  quoted,3, 268. 269, 
276;  his  theory  of  American  cold, 
278;  and  the  British  flag,  279. 

Health,  care  of  the,  1, 221 ;  defined,  2, 
160, 6,  394;  moral  and  intellectual, 
2, 193;  the  exception.  449;  value  of, 
4,  432;  Mature  and,  ff,  395;  the 
necessity  of,  10, 6,  7;  dependent  on 
relations  with  Nature,  252;  a  good 
gauge  of,  11,  455;  different  states 
of,  suited  to  different  occupations, 
12,  242. 

Heard,  Col.  David,  12,  211,287. 

Heard,  Deacon  Richard.  12,'  211. 

Hearing,  sense  of,  at  night,  2,  236; 
good,  3,  220. 

Heart-leaf.   See  Floating-heart. 

Heathen,  dwellers  on  the  heath,  14, 
299,  300. 

Heather,  2,  148. 

Heaven,  "  lies  about  us,"  1,  187;  a 
ticket  to,  3,  215;  subjectivity  of, 
4,  219;  a  negro's  idea  of,  9,  215; 
defined,  11, 127;  Alcott's  definition 
of,  13,  94. 

Heavens,  poverfy  of,  4,  469-471. 

Hebrews,  religion  of  the,  2,  3,  4. 

Heimskringla,  the,  3,  304. 

Helianthus.  See  Sunflowers. 

Helix  aJbolabris,  8,  242. 

Hellebore,  3,  486,  C,  149, 194, 13, 260. 
261. 

Help,  true,  1,  211,  212. 

Hemlock,  6,332,  8,  21,  14,  101;  Mi- 
chaux  on,  2, 199,  200;  beauty  of,  3, 
91;  lower  branches  of,  141;  har- 
mony between  water  and,  374,  375; 
twigs  of,  4,  150;  shoots  of,  5,  224; 
hemlock  woods,  229;  fallen,  284. 8, 
186,  187;  stump  of.  7,  263;  mea- 
sured, 299,  300;  regularity  of,  8, 
49;  grace  of,  111;  prevalence  of, 
9,  497;  places  of  growing,  10,  26; 
richness  of,  11,  400;  attractive  to 
squirrels,  13,  32;  seed  of,  the  food 
of  birds  and  squirrels,  67, 97;  bead- 
work  of,  335,  374. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


392 


INDEX 


HenUocks,  the  Leaning,  5,  388. 

Honp,  lodian.  See  Apocynum  car^ 
ruUnnum. 

Hmbane,  as  a  symbol.  12,  341. 

Hen-harrier.  See  Hawk,  marsh. 

Hen-hawk,  3,  426. 427. 7,  455. 8,  436. 
U,  313.  13,  194.  195.  426;  hunt- 
ing. 2,  480;  guarding  nest.  5,  341; 
caught  in  a  trap.  7,  27;  on  perch. 
285;  preying  on  a  cat.  353;  shot 
by  Minott,  9,  122;  scream  of.  10, 
135.  296;  flight  of,  135, 12,  74. 13, 
255.  14,  61;  indifferent  to  crows, 
10*  398;  a  young  one  shot  by  Gar- 
fiekl.  11,  302,  303;  lament  for  the 
death  of  a.  304-306;  a  remark- 
able feat  of.  398;  friend  of  the 
pine.  450;  wildness  of.  450;  pursued 
by  crows.  13,  291. 

Hens,  ennui  of,  1,  350;  domesticity 
of.  2,  302;  stealing  nest,  309;  ob- 
ject of.  in  following  cows.  319; 
companions  for  men.  3,  192;  ducks 
hatched  by.  4,  197;  legs  of.  197; 
track  of.  7,  212;  feeding  by  the 
river,  282;  their  love  of  an  early 
salad,  319;  a  crazy  hen,  9,  239;  a 
hen  eating  a  mouse,  419;  drawling 
note  of,  10,  298. 

Heraclius,  2, 189. 

Herbert,  Mr.,  on  the  humming  of  the 
snipe,  4«  495. 

Herbert,  Edward,  Lord.  14,  344. 

Herbs,  aromatic,  8,  466. 

Hercules,  and  the  twelve  labors,  1, 78, 
427. 

Herd's-grass,  4,  199. 

"Hero,  The,"  verse,  1,  403. 

Heroes,  real  and  ideal,  1,  22.  23;   in- 
sanity of.  2, 11;  imaginary  and  real. 
12,  405. 
\  Heroism,  the  seeds  of,  1,  52;   music 
and,  188. 

Heron,  great  blue,  2,  63,  3,  427,  5, 
381,  9,  23,  11,  113,  114,  165,  12, 
267,  268;  flight  of,  3,  443,  444,  5, 
153,  156,  157,  380,  391.  6,  228,  7, 
40.  41.  U,  109;  feeding-places  of, 
6, 465. 466;  a  fine  view  of  a,  7,  310; 
on  a  buttonwood  tree,  450;  at 
Westport  Pond,  482;  droppings  of, 
527;  slate-colored  expanse  of  wing 
of,  8,  4;  note  of.  11,  138;  a  decep- 
tive, 12,  284,  285;  sketches  of  head 
of.  286;  sounding  the  river,  287; 
skeleton  of,  14,  110. 

Heron,  green.  See  Bittern,  green. 


Hesperian  Isles,  4,  402.  403. 

Hewit,  Ci4;>tain,  of  Marnhfieki,g,  361. 
362. 

Heywood,  Dr.,  and  "Perch"  Hosmer, 
8,365. 

Heywood,  the  miller,  his  house,  7, 
217. 

Heywood.  young,  of  Concord.  11, 433. 

Heywood.  Abel,  4,  202. 

Heywood.  George.  10,  224.  225.  230. 

Heywood's  Gazetteer,  quoted,  14.44. 

Heywood's  Meadow,  a  tragedy  in,  2, 
13-15. 

Heywood's  Pond.  6,  16.  17. 

Hibiscus.  4,  297-299.  5,  373;  flowers 
of.  ornament  of  river.  4, 301;  escap- 
ing the  mowers,  5,  362 ;  seed  of,  9, 
99. 

Hickory,  or  walnut.  2,  9,  3,  228,  6, 
136, 7,  378,  512  ;  buds  of,  2,  12, 5, 
149,6,280.9,390;  on  a  hill-sbpe, 
2,  459;  sap  of.  3,  292;  by  moon- 
light. 5,  322;  autunm  colors  of.  9, 
108.  11,  197;  faUen  leaves  of.  10, 
120;  a  remarkable.  210;  a  burnt 
stick  of.  11,  402;  prolonging  the 
autumn,  12,  384.  385;  planting  of. 
14,  93.  94;  love  of.  for  hillside, 
281.    See  atao  Wood-lots. 

Hickory-nuts,  or  walnuts,  5,  457,  463, 
487,  11,  337;  aroma  of  green,  4, 
300, 301;  variety  in  form  of.  5,  482; 
gathering  of,  in  snow,  9,  177;  on 
the  tree.  12,  379. 

Hieracium.  See  Hawkweed. 

Higginson,  Storrow,  10,  387. 497,  500, 
501,507,11,  151,12,  166. 

Higginson  Thomas  Wentworth,  as  a 
lecturer,  3,  213;  talks  with,  7,  102. 
9, 254;  his  collection  of  rare  plants, 

8,  382. 

Highland  Light,  visits  to,  7,  433-443, 

9,  441-449. 

Highway  robbery,  2,  332.  333. 

Hill.  Mr.,  of  Bangor,  "Walden"  and, 
7,  102,  103. 

Hillocks,  stone-capped,  reminiscent 
of  mountains,  4,  209. 

Ilills,  and  vales,  4,  263;  range  of,  seen 
from  Billerica,  422;  near  the  water. 
7,  11;  explanation  of  barrenness 
of  brows.  12,  62;  common  form  of, 
13,  339. 

Hillside,  the  floral  history  of  a,  4, 127. 

Hindoos,  the,  book  of,  1, 266. 267;  con- 
ception by.  of  man,  275;  austerity 
of,  278, 279;  religion  of,  2, 3, 4;  rites 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


393 


of,  32;  their  acceptance  of  mira^ 
des,  4,  250. 

Hindostan,  climate  of,  5,  321. 

Hipparchus,  on  the  earth's  poles,  6* 
125. 

History,  fluctuations  of,  1,  268,  270; 
made  by  individuals,  not  peoples, 
/S,  188;  becoming  less  individual- 
istic, 3,  213;  partiality  in,  280; 
discrepancies  in  two  historical  ac- 
coimts,  282-285;  a  tale  of  develop- 
ment, 4,  267;  its  need  of  oral  tes- 
timony, 279,  280;  best  kind  of,  9, 
75;  versus  creative  thought,  10» 
46. 

Hitchcock,  Edward,  quoted,  14*  44. 

Hoar,  Mr. ,  of  Ctoncord,  7, 403, 10, 363. 

Hoar,  Mrs.,  an  anecdote  of,  10,  223. 

Hoar,  Edward,  5,  440.6, 4,0,  501, 10, 
9,  14.  223.  368,  379,  395,  427,  11, 
^1,  35,  58,  115.  120.  181;  Maine 
woods  excursion  with,  9,  484-503; 
talks  of  Deacon  Farrar's  sons.  10, 
15.  16;  to  Lincoln  limestone  with, 
174;  to  limestone  quarries  with, 
177;  tells  a  story  of  his  partner, 
181;  White  Mountain  excursion 
with,  11,  3-62. 

Hoar,  Elizabeth,  4,  302. 

Hoar,  Samuel,  7,  445,  446. 

Hogepen-walke,  5,  240. 

Hogs,  the  animal  vigor  of,  2,  36;  the 
human  in,  5,  241;  resurrection  of, 
8,  164.   See  also  Pigs. 

Hogweed,  6,  63. 

Holbrook,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  3,  457. 

Holbrook,  John  Edwards,  quoted,  4, 
97.8,  181,9,484,485. 

Holbrook  boy,  12,  244. 

Holder,  WilUam,  1,  238. 

Holland,  Josiah  Gilbert,  7,  416  and 
note. 

Hollowell  Farm,  attractions  of,  6,  91, 
92. 

Holly,  American,  2,  348,  7,  91. 

Holly,  wild  {Nemopanthea),  berry  of, 
4,  281;    young  leaves  of,  6,  281. 

Holt,  definition  of  the  word,  6,  112. 

Holy  war,  1,  55. 

Home,  2,  402,  403. 

Homer,  1,  59,  60.  192;  quoted.  66; 
and  prayer,  106;  lack  of  moral  dis- 
crimination in,  218;  innocence  and 
serenity  of  youth  in,  284;  the 
charm  of  the  Iliad.  284.  2,  97; 
reading  of,  1,  365;  read  in  original. 
377;  on  woodcutter's  work,  3,  245. 


"Homes  of  American  Authors,"  4, 
427. 

''Homes  and  Haunts  of  the  British 
Poets,"  7,  90. 

Honesty,  varieties  of,  10,  113. 

Honey,  made  from  maple  syrup,  3, 
298;  used  as  sugar,  12,  454. 

Honey-bees,  a  nest  of,  3,  70;  first 
honey  of,  4,  171;  devotion  of,  to 
white  maple,  6*  186;  instinct  of, 
for  finding  flowers,  13,  200,  201. 
See  also  Bees. 

Honey-bird,  2,  131. 

Hooksett  (N.  H.),  1,  91. 

Hooper,  Harry,  5,  523, 10,  168. 

Hope.  9,  275. 

Hop-hornbeam  (Oetrya  Virginica), 
6.  485;  catkins  of,  5, 123, 457. 458; 
spread  of,  10,  510. 

Horehound,  7,  513. 

Horehound,  water,  13,  78. 

Horn,  a  blast  of  a,  1,  163;  the  sound 
of  a,  .226;  the  Merrimack  boat- 
man's. 442;  the  farmer's,  4,  101, 
194,  5,  213. 

Hornbeam,  twigs  of,  3,  227;  catkins 
of.  5,  138,  139. 

Hornbound  tree,  7,  133,  134. 

Hornets,  nests  of,  2,  432, 3, 22. 23, 33, 
138, 4,  112, 7,  488,  489. 9,  201;  re- 
vived by  warmth,  11, 245.  See  also 
Wasps. 

Hornwort,  6,  448. 

Horse-chestnuts.  12,  358. 

Horse-mint,  7,  344. 

Horses,  wild  instincts  of,  2,  37,  38; 
fighting,  38;  South  American,  243; 
circus.  375;  slavery  of,  447-449; 
recklessness  oT,^,  187;  l^s  of, 
335;  docking  tails  of.  419;  alert- 
ness of,  to  perceive  a  step.  4,  137; 
remains  of  a  horse.  5,  11;  value  of 
a  horse.  115;  a  treadmill  horse,  276, 
277;  a  horse  out  of  his  element,  368; 
effect  of  check-rein  on,  6, 490;  dash- 
ing through  snow,  7,  176;  skull  of 
a  horse,  352,  353;  a  horse  drawing 
a  heavy  weight.  515;  an  old  family 
horse.  9,  98;  swimming  a  horse, 
418;  as  a  means  of  travel,  11, 7,  8;  a 
horse  frightened  by  a  sail,  120,  121. 

Horseshoe,  measured,  7, 439. 

Horseweed,  2,  434. 

Hosmer,  Miss,  and  Miss  Mary  Emer- 
son, 3,  204. 

Hosmer,  Abel,  talks  with.  9,  368, 11, 
157;    on  the  Assabet  stone  bridge 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


394 


INDEX 


aod  the  eddy  there,  12,  245,  246; 
on  the  Assabet  River,  247;  a  meet- 
ing with,  at  the  causeway  bridge,  13, 
107,  108. 
V  Hosmer,  Edmund,  3, 128,  204, 9, 108*. 
109,  11,  225;  too  old  for  farming, 
3,  35;  building  a  road,  128;  on 
owls,  131;  unyoking  his  oxen,  158; 
house  of,  485;  his  horn,  4,  104;  his 
philosophy  of  life,  194;  whittling 
his  axe-helve,  8, 197;  pessimism  of, 
245;  talks  of  Uncle  Charles,  245, 
246;  call  on,  416;  loading  hay,  10, 
237;  on  shod  shovels,  11,  228;  tak- 
ing down  Hunt  house,  13,  36-38, 
47. 

Hosmer,  Mrs.  Edmund,  4,  194. 

Hosmer.  Henry,  7,  206  note,  253. 

Hosmer,  Horace,  3,  105. 

Hosmer,  J..  5,  525, 6,  7,  8,  368;  cot- 
tage of,  4,  186. 

Hosmer,  J.,  young,  3,  237. 

Hosmer,  John,  12,  213;  tells  of  the 
money-diggers,  7,  69, 70;  talk  with, 
about  trees,  8,  363. 

Hosmer,  old  Mr.  Joseph,  3,  126;  a 
comfortable  talk  with,  115;  time's 
changes  related  by.  124,  125.  127; 
on  different  kinds  of  wood,  337. 

Hosmer,  Nathan,  3,  173,  12,  36-38, 
241. 

Hosmer,  Nathan,  grandfather  of  Ru- 
fus,  drowned,  7,  196. 

Hosmer,  "Perch,"  origin  of  his  nick- 
name, 3,  124,  8,  365. 

Hosmer,  Rufus,  6,  143, 7, 196, 8,  206. 

Hosmer,  Silas,  7,  178;  goes  a-spear- 
ing,  447,  448. 

Hosmer's  Desert,  8,  358. 

Houghton,  of  Concord,  3,  229,  230. 

Houghton,  Polly.  10,  362. 
^  Hounds,  a  lost  hound,  1,  398,  399;  in 
chase,  422;  the  baying  of  a  hound, 
7,  128;  hunting,  8,  460;  Melvin's, 
9,  148;  voice  of,  12,  149. 

Hound's-tongue,  4,  109. 

House-fly,  3,  72.   See  also  Flies. 

House-leek,  6,  127,  8,  446,  447. 

Houses,  ancient  and  modern,  com- 
pared, 1 ,  387-390;  the  sites  of,  420; 
prospects  from,  2,  215;  a  simple 
public  house,  343;  simplicity  of.  in 
former  times,  3,  34;  to  be  avoided 
in  walks,  4,  118;  filth  of,  133;  dif- 
ferentiated from  animal's  bed,  6, 
96;  a  pleasing  old  house  with  an 
ugly  modern  addition,  7,  125,  126; 


old  Concord,  505,  506;  the  old 
Conantum  house,  517,  518;  homes 
of  Thoreau  at  dififerent  periods  of 
life,  8,  64-67;  a  snowed-up  house, 
101;  Sheldon  house,  159;  locali- 
ties unfit  for,  329,  330;  on  Lee 
farm,  9,  255-260,  265;  Minott's 
descrfbed,  273,  274;  Tommy 
Wheeler's,  construction  of,  275; 
description  of  Ricketson's,  322-325; 
a  widow's  dower,  360;  type  of 
Cape  Cod,  449,  450;  on  a  hilltop, 
10,  207,  208;  roof  of  a  house  in  the 
distance,  311;  comfort  veraua  lux- 
ury, 315,  316;  Garfield's  house,  349; 
of  the  poor.  12, 193;  the  old  country 
homestead,  203;  the  house  and  the 
man,  330,  331. 

Hoitatonia  ccenilea,  or  bluet,  2,  260, 4, 
28,  68,  71,  5,  112;  color  change  of, 
4,  40;  fragrance  of,  13,  277;  deflse 
bed  of,  278;  in  sere  brown  grass, 
283. 

"  How  little  curious  is  man,"  verse,  1, 
459. 

Howe  tavern,  ff,  179. 

Howitt,  William,  7,  90,  500;   quoted. 

6,  112,  9,  291;  his  account  of  Aus- 
tralian gold-diggings.  7,  491. 

Hubbard,  Captain,  9,  55. 

Hubbard,  Charles,  his  maple  swamp, 

7,  247,  248. 

Hubbard,  Cyrus,  eulogy  of,  9,  144, 
145. 

Hubbard,  Ebby,  3,  218;  and  rats,  10, 
225. 

Hubbard,  George,  a  suggestive  re- 
mark of,  8,  315. 

Hue,  Abb^  Evariste  R^gis,  3,  474,  4, 
15. 

Huckleberries,  1,  88,  2,  73,  4,  224. 6, 
356,  11,  84;  principal  wild  fruit, 
4,  158,  159;  blue  and  black  allied, 
224;  compared  with  amelanchier 
berries,  6, 288;  spilled  by  a  boy,  358 
and  note;  an  Oljonpian  fruit,  360; 
361;  abundance  of.  6,  419,  420; 
effect  of  drought  on,  489;  dried,  7, 
84;  fine  crop  of,  9,  69;  importance 
of,  86,  87;  an  appearance  of  dust 
on.  11,  81;  small  account  made  of, 
14,  282;  introduction  to  lecture  on, 
310. 

Huckleberry.  14,  299,  300;  blossoms 
of,  4,  90.  6,  309,  7,  393;  autumn 
foliage  of,  11,  246;  springing  from 
a  pine  stump,  13,  400;   roots  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX 


395 


shoots  (rf,  14,  152.  153.  See  also 
Dangle-berry. 

Huckleberry,  hairy  (Gayltteeacia  du- 
moaa),  11,  83;  described.  9,  41,  465, 
466;  fruit  of.  11,  148,  14,  67;  on 
unimproved  land,  67. 

Huckleberry,  red,  5,  352;  green  state 
of,  9,  7. 

Huckleberry-apples,  6,  228;  preco- 
city of,  269. 

Hucklebeny-bird.   See  Sparrow,  field. 

Huckleberry  cake,  used  by  aborigines, 
14,  308,  309. 

Huckleberrying.  18, 290, 300, 14, 274; 
professional,  295.  See  cUso  Berry- 
ing. 

Hudsonia.    See  Poverty-grass. 

Hudson's  Bay  C!ompany,  12,  121, 
122. 

Hull,  a  trip  to,  2,  343-346. 

Hull,  General,  anecdote  about,  9,  94. 
^  Human  race,  sympathy  with  the,  6, 
483. 

Humane  House,  T.  takes  refuge  in  a, 
.^    9,440. 

Humane  Society,  1,  186. 

Humanity,  revelation  of,  to  lover,  4, 
360;  comparison  of,  to  Nature,  445, 
446. 

Humblebee.    See  Bumblebee. 

Humboldt,  Alexander  von,  5,  117, 
120.  121;  quoted,  2,  11. 

Hummingbird,  5,  298.  6,  293,  8,  172. 
340,  9,  387;  in  the  house,  10,  423, 
429,  430;  in  a  shower,  13,  395,  396. 

Hummocks,  4,  186,  187. 

Humor,  inadequacy  of,  1,  336;  nar- 
row vision  of,  358. 

Hunt.  Abel,  3,  412;  a  walk  with,  8, 
145. 

Hunt.  Robert,  quoted,  2,  165.  169. 

Hunt  farm,  4,  487. 

Hunt  house,  3f  393.  394,  412,  413,  6, 
416. 7,  456,  457, 10,  279, 12,  36-38, 
46-48,  59,  60,  86.  87. 

Hunt's  pasture,  4,  431. 

Hurd,  Isaac,  11,  436. 

"  Hurts."  an  old  English  word,  7, 183. 

Husbanding,  inferior  to  prodigality, 
1,386. 

Husbandry,  the  art  of,  8,  229. 

Husk-root,  8,  391. 

Husks  and  huskings,  10,  79. 

Hussein  Eflfendi.  quoted.  1,  343. 

Hutchinson,  Peter.  6,  524,  11,  434, 
12,  110,  111.  224;  a  pig-butcher, 
9, 179, 180. 


Hydrogen,2,  169,  8, 190. 9,  474.  481. 

Hydrophobia,  2,  262,  5,  522. 

Hyemalis.    See  FringiUa  kyemalia. 

Hyla,  peeping,  or  hylodes.  or  peeping 
frog,  or  peeper  (Hykdee  Picker- 
ingii),Z,  457,4, 40, 162,6,  35,  500, 
9,  355, 10,  372, 11,  91;  shyness  of. 
3,  469,  470;  peeping  of.  486,  4, 
9,  12-15,  38, 5,  87, 106, 9,  302,  312, 
313,  10,  94.  368, 13,  325,  330;  de- 
scription of  and  habits  of,  4,  6,  7; 
kept  in  the  house,  9.  15;  lord  of 
sound,  38;  color  of  oak  leaf,  44; 
marks  of,  for  concealment.  162; 
how  detected.  5,  170;  the  first  to 
awaken,  8,  268,  289;  climbing 
and  jumping,  10,  370;  sketch  of. 
370;  wariness  of,  373;  in  different 
temperatures,  13,  335. 

Hypericum.    See  St.  John's-wort. 

Hypericum  Saroihra,  9,  35. 

Hypopitys.    See  Pine-sap. 

Hyssop,  hedge,  2,  425. 

"I  am  the  little  Irish  boy,"  verse,  2, 
117. 

"  I  fain  would  stretch  me  by  the  high- 
way-side," verse,  1,  477. 

"I  have  rolled  near  some  other  spirit's 
path,"  verse,  1,  457. 

"I  know  the  world  where  land  and 
water  meet."  verse.  1,  110. 

"I  mark  the  summer's  swift  decline," 
verse,  1,  449. 

"  I  saw  a  delicate  flower  had  grown  up 
two  feet  high,"  verse.  2,  66. 

"I  saw  the  civil  sun  drying  earth's 
tears,"  verse,  1,  71. 

"I  seek  the  present  time,"  verse,  1, 
409. 

"I  was  bom  upon  thy  bank,  river," 
verse,  1,  438. 

Ibrahim  Pasha.  1.  343. 

Ice,  breaking  up  of,  in  the  river,  1, 
126;  patterns  of.  in  the  woods.  184; 
booming  of,  227,  6,  25,  120.  121; 
plants  under,  2,  108;  curious  for- 
mations in,  155, 11,  446-449;  how 
melted.  2,  169;  holes  in,  3, 125;  an 
artist.  139;  law  governing  cracks  in, 
175;  green,  313;  poverty  of  Nature 
under.  372;  on  herbage.  4,  439;  on 
trees.  440-443. 445.9, 239-242;  brat- 
tling of.  4, 445;  forms  of,  481,  482; 
handsome  curves  in,  5,  29;  figures 
in,  526;  marbling  process.  6, 16. 17; 
organ-pipes  of,  63,  64.  7,  151,  9, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


396 


INDEX 


V 


287;  rainbow  reflectioD  from,  6, 119, 
120;  measuremeats  of,  in  Walden 
and  Fair  Haven,  138;  rose-colored, 
7, 139, 142;  water  overflowing,  155; 
shelves  of,  like  picnic  tables,  170; 
over  a  dry  swamp,  177;  threaten- 
ing bridges  in  Ck)ncord,  191,  192; 
sketches  of  water-worn  and  rotting, 
218;  grain  of,  220,  221;  on  the  dry 
meadows,  225;  a  burning-glass  of, 
226;  possible  reason  for  its  not  rot- 
ting, 228;  form  of  holes  in,  229; 
swollen  by  sun,  235;  in  Abel  Hos- 
mer's  pasture.  241,  242;  marks  of, 
on  trees,  253;  water-worn,  256, 257; 
havoc  made  by,  259;  in  April,  281; 
like  yeast,  8,  54;  on  the  weeds,  61, 
62;  snow  ice,  83;  cutting  a  cake 
of,  167;  measuring  thickness  of, 
167-170, 182,  183,  205-207,  211; a 
trap  for  the  river,  9«  154;  ripple- 
marks  in,  164;  roughened  by  wind, 
166, 167;  glaze,  described  by  Brad- 
ford, 170;  crystallization  of,  173, 
174;  effect  of  wind  on,  174;  at  edge 
of  falls,  189;  measuring  thickness  of , 
by  cracks,  189,  190;  shelf  of,  203. 
224,  297;  cleavages  in,  219;  bearing 
power  of,  compared  with  truth,  238; 
glaze,  described,  239-242;  barking 
the  trees.  292,  302,  303;  on  the 
C^pe  shore,  441 ;  formation  of  holes 
in,  10,  229,  230;  sketches  of  forma- 
tions of,  237;  effect  on  pond-shore, 
277;  marking  trees,  11,  105;  green 
in,  413;  a  field  for  entomologists, 
427;  deceptive  appearance  of  skat- 
ers on,  427;  experiment  with  bub- 
bles in,  427,  428;  curious  pheno- 
mena in,  429-433.  434,  441.  442; 
destructive  power  of,  441;  fibrous 
frost-crystals  in,  443,  444;  bubbles 
in,  445;  salver-shaped.  13,  6;  mack- 
erelled.  28;  a  field  of  old,  72,  73; 
acting  as  a  lever  on  the  meadow. 
137;  in  process  of  crystallization, 
13,  23,  24;  at  its  greenest,  57; 
heaved  up  by  vapor.  60;  sketch  of 
markings  of,  117;  sketches  of  va- 
rious figures  in,  129-132;  thickened 
edge  of,  135;  crinkled  hnes  in.  139; 
another  sky,  140.  141;  forming  in 
parallel  ridges,  146;  fungus-like, 
178,  179. 

Icebergs,  3,  247. 

Ice-cakes,  in  a  stream,  7, 130;  on  bare 
ground,  209, 213;  carrying  off  mea- 


dow-cniBt.  216.  217,  245;  12,  137- 
139. 

Ice-crystals,  2,  157,  158,  5,  468;  like 
birds'  tracks,  495;  asbestoa-like, 
519;  formation  of,  6,  6;  floating 
down-stream,  13;  form  of,  15.  16; 
leaf-like.  154,  8,  77,  10,  204;  in  a 
swamp,  269. 

Ice-fiakes,  fleets  of,  6, 115,7, 162, 163, 
12,  30. 

Ice-rosettes,  7,  88, 13, 118, 121. 

Iciclss,  7,  216;  forms  of,  3,  303,  6, 
174;  forms  of,  made  by  dashing 
spray,  172;  .rake- toothed,  9,  181; 
formation  of,  10,  181;  rake,  horn, 
and  organ-pipe.  13,  133-135;  like 
birds'  beaks,  144. 

Ideal,  compared  to  actual,  1,  360;  I 
charm  of,  superior  to  actual,  6, 182;  | 
compared  with  actual  in  acquaint-  V 
ance,  11,  232.  ^ 

Ideas,  soaring,  3,  173,  174. 

Idleness,  cultivated  in  Orient,  1,  343. 

"  If  from  your  price  ye  will  not 
swerve,"  verse,  1,  245. 

Ignorance,  advantages  of,  2, 150;  util- 
ity of,  4,  466. 

llyaanthea  grcUioloidea,  4,  208. 

Imagination,  reality  and,  2, 43;  dulled 
by  surveying,  10,  233,  234;  great 
value  of,  11,  445. 

Impudent,  shaming  the,  3,  199,  200. 

Impurity,  as  old  as  purity,  3,  255. 

"In  the  busy  streets,  domains  of 
trade,"  verse,  1,  51. 

Inches  Woods,  14,  224-231.  241-249, 
304. 

India-rubber  coat,  9,  487. 

Indian  arrowheads,  1,  452,  453, 2,  40, 
96, 158, 6,  47. 196.  218.  492, 6,  347. 
348,  7,  105,  226,  445,  465,  479,  8, 
394,  465, 9,  468, 10, 118, 12,  43, 44, 
88-93,  105,  175,  397,  ^3,  368,  369. 
14,  201. 

Indian  (East)  books,  presented  to  T., 
8,36. 

Indian  burying-ground,  7,  472. 

Indian  chisel.  9,  468. 

Indian  corn-hills,  2,  500,  10,  11,  175. 

Indian  Ditch,  3,  79. 

Indian  flints.  1,  453. 

Indian  gouges.  3,  58. 

Indian  hoe.  5,  299. 

Indian  idol.  5,  22. 

Indian  language,  10,  294.  295. 

Indian  lore,  lack  of  appreciation  of 
autumn  in,  11,  254. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


INDEX 


897 


Indian  mortar,  1,  455,  ?»  468. 

Indian  pestle,  1,  455,  5,  525,  526.  9, 
305. 

Indian  pottery,  13,  104. 105,  14,  58, 
50,  91;  at  Essex  Institute,  11,  170. 

Indian  relics,  seen  at  Plymouth,  3, 
366;  season  for  discovery  of,  6, 
165;  first  discovered,  8,  66;  on 
Cape  Cod,  9,  450;  found  in  Maine, 
502;  at  East  India  Marine  Hall, 
11,  170;  on  meadow  islands.  13, 
57;  foreseeing  the  discovery  of,  14, 
60;   where  found,  272. 

Indian  Rock,  Concord,  10,  18. 

Indian  shells.  3,  360. 

Indian  soapstone  pots,  4,  83,  7,  471. 

Indian  soapstone-ware,  5,  19. 

Indian  spear-heads,  1,  453. 

Indian  spring,  5,  22,  9,  293. 

Indian  stone  chips,  11,  212. 

Indian  stone  Ijatchet,  1,  453. 

Indian  summer,  of  life,  3,  481,  482; 
limits  of,  5,  510;  in  this  and  other 
countries,  518;  peculiar  haze  of,  9, 
129. 

Indian  tobacco,  2,  409. 

Indian  village,  9,  425;  remains  of  an, 
1,  454. 

Indian  weir,  in  North  River,  4,  154. 

Indian-pipe,  or  tobacco-pipe,  5,  343, 
6,  414, 12, 308;  likened  to  a  maiden, 
5,  347, 348;  growing  in  families,  11, 
90. 
^Indians,  free  and  unconstrained  in 
Nature,  1,  253;  treading  in  the 
tracks  of  the  Indian,  337,  338;  for- 
gotten except  by  some  poets,  443; 
the  Stockbridge  Indians,  444;  must 
take  to  the  plow,  444-446;  Chero- 
kees  saved  by  the  plow,  446;  their 
relation  to  nature.  473;  last  traces 
of,  in  Massachusetts,  2,  42;  beg- 
ging, 83;  selling  baskets,  84;  their 
names  for  trees  and  flowers,  105; 
an  encampment  in  Concord,  112- 
115;  inventions  of,  113-115;  Cana- 
dian, 221,  222;  in  arctic  regions, 
241;  Peruvian,  244;  Penobscots, 
295;  using  almonds  of  the  pine  as 
food,  3,  146;  converted  by  Jesuits, 
218;  respected  by  French,  289; 
their  use  of  pines  for  compass.  4, 
136;  of  Darien,  albinos  among, 
226;  the  Indian  mind  con- 
trasted with  white  man's,  401; 
household  commodities  of,  490, 
491;  Hannah  Dustin  carried  off  by. 


5, 113;  service-berries  used  by,  302, 
303;  associated  with  the  forest, 
457;  emerging  from  savagery,  526 ; 
eating  muskrats,  6,  8;  oratory  of, 
45,  46;  last  Indian  at  Nantucket, 
7,  96;  wigwam  of  an  Indian,  100; 
parts  of  a  skeleton  of  an  Indian, 
445;  settlement  of,  at  Betty's 
Neck.  474;  a  half-breed  woman 
on  Betty's  Neck,  476;  Praying,  478; 
the  last  pure-blooded  Indian  about 
New  Bedford,  8,  390,  391;  use  of 
Dirca  poLuatris  by,  9,  67,  68;  an- 
other encampment  in  Concord,  158, 
184;  cutting  blackfish,  170;  diplo- 
macy of,  202;  traditions  concerning 
Concord  Indians,  255;  an  Indian 
chant,  10,  77;  mist  on  the  Indian's 
brow,  77;  stagnation  of  race,  251, 
252;  a  lecture  by  an  Indian,  291- 
295;  an  Indian's  English,  291;  some 
customs  and  implements  of,  292, 
293;  the  Indian  language,  294. 295; 
names  for  outdoor  things.  298;  re- 
serve of.  313;  their  methods  of 
burial,  11, 37;  historians'  neglect  of 
the,  437,  438;  site  of  wigwams,  12, 
43,  44,  57;  their  words  for  colors, 
78;  their  use  of  black  ash,  13,  186, 
187,  192;  cultivation  of  soil  by,  14, 
272;  Algonquins,  303;  Iroquois, 
303;  their  use  of  huckleberries,  308, 
309 

Indigo-bird,  5,  120.  9,  411;  well 
named,  2,  330;  nest  of,  12,  17,  18. 

Indigo-weed,  2,  123,  300;  used  to 
keep  off  flies,  65;  withered  pods  of, 
12,  418;  a  rattle  of,  13,  167;  tufts 
of.  bottom  up,  14,  223,  224. 

Individuality,  10,  389,  390;  betrayed 
in  various  ways,  13,  127. 

Indoors,  and  outdoors,  2,  338;  ef- 
fect of  confinement  to  the  house, 
3,  106;  in  spring,  6,  37.  ^ 

Industry,  conducive  to  happiness,  10, 
187. 

Infant,  a  crone-like.  1,  383;  the  last 
of  a  noble  line,  383;  its  discovery 
of  its  hands,  2,  441.  See  also  Babe. 

Infanticide,  2,  342. 

Influence,  result  of  entire  character, 
1,448. 

Ingraham,  Mr.,  New  Bedford  libra- 
rian, 9,  319. 

Ingraham,  Cato,  1,  419. 

Ingraham,  Duncan,  10,  219. 

Insane  man,  an,  13,  3, 4. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


S98 


INDEX 


Insanity,  3,  11;  bred  indoors,  9,  200. 

Inscriptions,  in  old  Indian  burying- 
ground,  7,  472 ;  on  rocks  in  Mid- 
dleborough,  473,  474;  on  old  Lee 
house  chimney,  9,  257,  259,  261, 
262. 

Insects,  hum  of,  1, 227;  food  for  fishes, 
2,  36, 5,  54;  exuviae  of,  2,  39;  eggs 
of,  39;  killed  by  frost,  3,  46;  not 
loafers,  4,  373;  attacking  spring 
foliage,  5,  204;  heralding  the  sum- 
mer, 6,  307;  exuvise  of,  on  water, 

7,  14;    abundance  of    insect  life, 

8,  386;  destroyed  by  flood,  9,  18; 
nidus  of,  11,  37;  found  on  ice,  427; 
a  dance  of,  12,  35;  swarms  over 
the  river,  174;  significance  in  hum 
of,  13, 263;  of  Mt.  Monadnock,  14, 
35.  See  aUo  Grubs. 

Insects,  unidentified,  9,  292,  300,  11, 
170. 12,  289, 13,  92,  102,  133,  135, 
136,  378,  424. 

"Insects  Injurious  to  Vegetation,' 
12,  170,  171. 

Inspiration,  moments  of,  2,  469. 

Instinct,  trustworthiness  of,  6,  179; 
compared  to  law,  and  knowledge, 
278;  in  turtle  and  in  man,  7,  33. 
^  Instincts,  the  mind  of  ancestors,  1, 
488;  opposition  to,  2,  46. 

Integrity,  an  act  of,  1,  119. 

Intellectual,  compared  with  the  phy- 
sical, 2,  414. 

Interest,  the  point  of,  10,  165. 

Invalids,  9,  379. 

Inventions,  rapid  dissemination  of, 
2,  377;  seeming  simplicity  of,  428; 
an  invention  borrowed  from  na- 
ture, 14,  343. 

Investment,  1,  350,  351 ;  in  sand- 
banks, 10,  92,  93. 

Invitations,  true  and  false,  3,  218, 
\       219. 

Irish,  their  old-country  methods  of 
farming,  2, 272, 273;  rapid  natural- 
ization of,  3,  166;  as  woodchoppers, 
321. 

Irishmen,  a  shiftless  Irishman,  1,  383. 
384;  a  drunken  Irish  soldier,  414- 
418;  the  reply  of  an  Irishman,  3, 
16,  17,  19;  a  blundering  Irishman, 
135;  their  fear  of  snakes,  5, 354, 355. 

Irishwoman,  an  old.  3,  166. 

Iron  Horse,  the,  6,  266,  267. 

Iroquois,  their  method  with  French 
prisoners,  6,  45;  customs  of,  with 
criminals,  50,  51. 


Island,  formation  of  an,  8,  399. 
Italy,  art  of,  1,  167. 
"I've  seen  ye,  sisters,  on  the  moun- 
tain-side," verse,  1,  477. 

Jackson,  Dr.  Charles  T.,  quoted,  9, 
499, 10,  465, 11,  8.  9. 

Jamblichus,  1,  352,  353. 

Jakes,  the  poetry  of  the,  3, 255. 

James,  Rev.  Horace,  his  collection  of 
reptiles,  8,  380,  381. 

Jamestown-weed.  See  Datura  Stron 
monium. 

January,  1,  315.  6,  112;  name  of,  5, 
400;   hardest  month,  6,  91. 

Jardine.  Sir*  William,  quoted,  7,  288. 
351,  449,  464. 

Jarvis,  Captain,  of  Concord,  5,  205, 
208. 

Jarvis,  Dr.  Edward,  8,  186. 

Jay,  blue.  2,  133,  4,  386.  5,  389.  495. 
7,  223,  354,  8,  366,  11,  318,  319; 
notes  of,  1,  70. 3,  23. 4,  204,  481, 6, 
91, 164,  7, 190, 9,  105.  110. 10,  64; 
eating  chestnuts,  1,  425;  a  suspi- 
cious jay.  5,  281;  seasons  of,  6,  146; 
nest  of,  7,  410,  411.  8,  366,  415; 
eggs  of,  366;  the  bird  of  October. 
11, 279, 280;  eating  acorns,  308, 14, 
188;  protecting  her  young,  12,  200. 
201;  as  a  planter  of  oaks,  14,  180; 
man's  benefactor,  200;  storing 
com,  313;   diet  of,  332. 

Jefferson  Hill  (N.  H.),  view  from,  11, 
39,  40. 

Jenkins,  Henry,  4,  280. 

Jerusalem-oak,  5,  398,  12,  341. 

Jesuits,  in  Canada,  3,  218. 

Jew,  gladness  and  sadness  of,  2,  471. 

Jewelry,  false  and  true.  10,  7. 

^ewett^s  steam  mill,  2,  8. 

Jillson,  Samuel,  taxidermist,  10,  244, 
245. 

Joan,  Mrs.  Brooks's  Irish  girl.  8,  212. 

Johnson,  Lady  Arbella,  11,  173  note. 

Johnson,  Edward,  his  "Wonder- 
working Providence"  quoted,  6» 
198. 

Johnson,  Dr.  Samuel,  1,  98;  his  wil- 
low, 9,  497. 

Johnswort.  See  St.  John's-wort. 

Joke,  love  of  a,  7,  89. 

Jones,  Mr.,  T.'s  great-uncle,  a  Tory. 
3,  412  and  note. 

Jones,  Col.  Elisha,  8,  187: 

Jones,  Ephraim.  his  account-books. 
6,  77-80,  88,  94-96,  101. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


INDEX 


899 


Jone9.  Mary,  8,  187. 

Jones,  Nahum,  and  his  cat,  7,  185. 

Jcnes  ancestry  of  Thoreau,  8, 187, 188. 

Jones's  Exchange  Hotel,  7,  73. 

Jonson,  Ben,  quoted,  1,  201,  203, 209, 
210,  227,  228.  242. 

Josselyn,  John,  7, 108;  quoted,  6«  74, 
76,  108. 

Journal,  significance  of,  to  T.,  1,  206, 
207;  its  relation  to  lectures  and 
\  essays,  413;  a  record  of  love,  2, 
101;  nearness  and  remoteness  of  a, 
143;  the  main  value  of  a,  3,  217; 
omission  of  the  ludicrous  in,  222; 
thoughts  in  a,  239  ;  practice  of 
keeping,  condemned.  390;  a  record 
1  of  joy,  4,  223 ;  a  name  for,  5,  32; 
subjects  for,  7*  171;  most  impor- 
tant events  undated,  8,  64;  charm 
of  a,  134;  method  of  writing,  9,  306; 
the  uses  of,  10,  115. 

Journal,  Big  Red,  of  546  pages,  8,  66. 

Journal  of  39^  pages,  8,  66. 

".  Journal  of  a  Naturalist."  See 
Knapp,  John  Leonard. 

Journalizing,  1,  182. 
^.^^  Judge,  the  sentence  of  the,  2,  181. 
^Wudiciary,  moral  character  of,  6,  357, 
358. 

"Ju-Kiao-Li,  or  The  Two  Fair  Ck)u- 
sins,"  11,  81;   quoted,  65,  66. 

July,  full  of  detail,  4,  175;  charac- 
teristics of,  6,  416. 

Juncuf  militaria,  piercing  of  a  lily  pad 
by  a,  6,  399;  level  stripe  on  ranks 
of,  425.   See  also  Rush,  bayonet. 

June,  5, 224;  the  first  half  colder  than 
May,  4,  77;  light  of,  115;  shadows 
of,  135;  droughts  in,  5,  327;  eye- 
lashes of,  9,  383;  weather  pheno- 
mena of,  13,  338,  339;  phenomena 
of,  occurring  simultaneously,  356, 
357;  compared  with  May,  370;  an 
up-country  month.  384. 

June-grass,  7,  413, 13,  312,  320.  321. 

Juniper,  creeping  (Juniperu8  repens), 
3,  446,  5,  209;  a  miniature  forest. 
12,  357,  358. 

Juniper  berries,  6, 482, 7, 342. 12, 403; 
as  articles  of  commerce,  14,  278. 

Jupiter,  1,  392. 

Jury,  trial  by,  for  runaway  slaves,  6, 
v..        367. 
^Justice,  beauty  of,  6,  340. 

''.Kalendarium  Hortense,"  quotation 
from,  4»  88. 


Kalm,  Peter,  quoted.  2,  463. 

Kcdmia  glauca,  6,  130,  7,  108,  389, 9, 
44,  161.  376,  10,  184,  201, 12,  388, 
13,  392. 

Kane,  Dr.  Elisha  Kent,  quoted,  6, 
139,  140,  9,  192.  193,  200,  11,  17 
note. 

Kansas,  anxiety  for,  9,  36;  John 
Brown  in.  12,  427-430,  433. 

Kamey,  Anne,  8,  311. 

K'St  tree,  1,  343. 

Katydid,  9,  136. 

Keel  Ridge,  4,  353. 

Kellogg,  Mr. ,  of  Brattleboro,  Vt.,9, 72. 

Kelp,  2,  246,  247,  7,  444. 

Kelp  flies,  immense  swarm  of.  9, 417. 

Kendal,  Ned,  the  bugler.  2,  379. 

Kettell  place,  the.  2,  88. 

Kettle.  Johnny.  10,  62. 

Khaled,  2,  189. 

Killdeer,  7,  435.  484. 

Kilter,  the  word,  9,  177. 

Kimball,  the  giant  of  Littleton,  3, 
202,  203,  205,  206,  10, 131,  132. 

Kimball,  Dick.  2,  7. 

Kineo  House,  9,  490. 

King,  Mrs.,  6,  440. 

Kingbird,  11,  110.  12,  227.  231.  259; 
related  to  swallow.  4,  53;  liveli- 
ness of,  5,  199;  nest  of.  7,  414,  421, 
8,  123,  124.9,  408. 10,488;  enemy 
of  hawk,  487;  character  of,  11,  72; 
genius  of  the  river.  77;  proprietor- 
ship in  swamp  white  oak,  81. 

Kingdoms  of  the  earth,  not  worth  a 
"tinker's  damn,"  1,  78. 

Kingfisher,  7,  311,  329.  8,  273;  note 
of,  3,  465,6,  210;  flight  of,  5, 124.6, 
218  ;  poised  in  air,  254;  method  of 
catching  flsh,  343,  344;  nest  of.  12, 
204. 

Kingman,  John.  7,  479. 

Kirby  and  Spence,  quoted,  5,  465, 
467. 

"Kiss  for  a  Blow,  A."  6,  264. 

Kitten,  a  lost,  5,  181-183;  a  swim- 
mer, 8,  5;  recuperative  powers  of, 
60;  habits  of.  14,  314.  315,  340-342; 
a  young.  344.  345. 

Kittiy-bender,  9,  238.  239. 

Knapp,  John  Leonard,  his  "  Journal 
of  a  Naturalist"  quoted,  7,  224, 
10,5. 

Knapweed,  like  a  thistle,  5,  377. 

Knawel,4,  91,8,  12. 

Kneeland,  Dr.  Samuel,  12,  327  note; 
talk  with,  10,  247,  248. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


400 


INDEX 


Knots,  art  of  tyinK,  -5,  335,  7,  450. 

Knowledge,  of  the  learned  and  un- 
learned. 2,  138;  what  it  amounts 
to,  Iftg;  self-conscious.  3,  123, 124; 
compared  to  law,  and  instinct,  6, 
278;  learning  and,  12,  371,  372; 
gained  from  animals  living  and 
dead.  14,  109. 

Kossuth,  Louis,  3,  150,  480;  excite- 
ment over,  4, 15.  Id;  arrival  of,  45. 

Kouyunjik,  6,  9. 

Krigia,  6,  179.  8,  412,  9,  407. 

Krigia  Virginica,  4,  167. 

Ktaadn.  5,  432;  top  of,  at  night,  4, 
161. 

La  Hontan,  Baron  de,  quoted,  3,  337. 

La  Mountain,  in  Canada  wilderness, 
12,  397.  398,  411. 

La  Plata,  River,  2,  241,  243. 

Labaume,  his  journal  of  the  Cam- 
paign in  Russia,  8,  27,  28. 
V  Labor,  the  recompense  of,  1,  157; 
manual,  and  style  in  writing,  312- 
314,  345;  value  of  manual,  3,  126; 
aim  of  intellectual,  4.  101 ;  variety 
of,  yielding  profit,  253;  dignity  of, 
8,  31;  enjoyment  of,  13,  20,  21; 
the  division  of,  14,  295. 
^  Laborers,  leisure  of,  1, 356, 357;  devil- 
ishly industrious,  4«  139;  a  singing 
laborer,  144,  145;  manner  of  walk- 
ing, 7,  196;  dress  of,  8,  434;  a 
farm  laborer  staring  at  T.,  11,  230, 
231. 

Labrador,  1,  306. 

Lactuca  elongcUa.  See  Lettuce,  tall. 

Ladies,  feebleness  of,  12,  356. 

Lady,  young,  in  a  boat,  1,  144. 

Lady's  slipper,  8,  366;  a  white.  13, 
303. 

Laing,  Samuel,  3,  82;  quoted,  304. 

Lake  (color),  in  plants,  5,  355. 

Lakes,  ideal  time  to  behold,  4,  279; 
beds  of,  339;  skylights  of,  384;  at 
evening,  5,  323;   salt,  7,  480. 

Lambkill,  2,  466, 4,  96,  135,  136,  281, 
6,  269;  a  neglected  flower,  4,  141, 
142;  an  evergreen,  5,  455;  meadow 
of.  7, 138;  adaptable  nature  of,  10, 
201. 

Lampetie,  sister  of  Phaeton,  2,  145. 

I^ncaster,  beauty  of,  2,  26. 

Land,  moderation  in  buying,  8,  56,  57. 

Landor,  Walter  Savage,  list  of  his 
works,  1,  397;  quoted,  397. 7, 160, 
161. 


Landscape,  value  of  distance  to,4, 346, 
347;  as  viewed  with  head  turned, 
3,  228, 6,  17;  charm  of  the  crepus- 
cular, 53;  tone  of  August,  11,  115. 

Landscapes,  seen  from  hilltops,  2$ 
187. 

Language,  definition  of,  1,  98;  as  a 
work  of  art,  172;  based  in  sincerity, 
255. 256;  spoken,  compared  to  writ- 
ten. 369;  not  limited  to  speech,  386; 
inadequacy  of,  2,  409,  410;  his- 
torical significance  of,  10,  290,291; 
Indian,  295;  difficulty  of  acquir- 
ing, 11,  137;  restricting  effect  of 
grammar  on,  386;  the  true  and  the 
counterfeit,  12,  389,  390;  English, 
correct  writing  of,  13,  125. 

Laocodn,  G.  56. 

Larch,  2,  89.  3,  329,  6,  123,  10,  27, 
192, 13,  335;  quality  and  use  of,  2, 
200;  conspicuous  in  spring,  5,  138; 
cones  of,  478, 6,  239,  307;  seeds  of, 
picked  by  tree  sparrows,  5;  flow- 
ers of,  217,  234, 7,  33s;  bunching 
up  of  twigs  of  a,  175;  at  a  distance, 
11,271. 

Lark,  or  meadowlark,  3,  50, 5, 26,  37, 
50,6.164,336.487;  song  of ,  1, 330. 
2,  309, 3,  410,  4,  159,  278, 5,  97, 6, 
223,  7,  270;  singing  in  winter,  5, 
468;  alive  under  snow,  6,  169;  in 
January,  9,  242. 

Lark,  shore,  5,  489,  7,  492  note.  10, 
319,  320, 12,  373. 

"  Last  night,  as  I  lay  gazing  with  shut 
eyes,"  verse,  1,  71. 

"  Lately,  alas,  I  knew  a  gentle  boy," 
verse,  1,  80. 

T^tin,  conciseness  of,  2,  143;  termi- 
nations, 443;  discipline  in  study 
of,  3, 118;  the  Latin  night,  272, 273; 
value  of,  4,  287. 

Laurel,  mountain,  2,  224.  3,  136,  4, 
130,  6,  238,  269,  270,  273,  274,  6, 
282,  360,  7,  9. 

Lavater,  Johann  Caspar,  quoted.  2, 
150. 

Law,  its  relation  to  war,  1,  333,  334; 
its  inferiority  to  conscience,  334, 
335;  unity  of,  443;  obedience  to, 
2,  171,  172;  compared  to  instinct 
and  knowledge,  6,  278;  delays  of, 
11,  208,  209. 

lowing.  3,  419. 

Laws,  man's  obedience  to.  3,  86;  a 
suggestion  r^arding  foundation  of, 
14,  57. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


401 


**Laws  of  Menu  with  the  Glora  of 
CuUuca,  The."  1,  261,  264,  279, 
280. 

Lawson,  John,  14, 231;  quoted,  0, 451 
note. 

Lawyers,  limits  to  rights  of,  13,  451, 
452. 

Layard,  Sir  Austen  Henry,  9,  214, 
261;  quoted,  3,  35,  iS,  9.  11. 

Jje  Barron,  Miss  Martha,  8,  378. 

Le  Jeune,  Father  Paul,  4, 388;  quoted, 
1,  445.  4,  442,  456. 6,  42.  45.  46. 

Leaf,  escort  of  flower,  4,  45;  univer- 
sality of  form  of,  6,  154;  tracks  of, 
in  snow.  8,  111;  maturity  of,  11, 
317. 

Leafing  of  the  trees,  significance  of, 
6,  322,  323. 

Leafing  of  trees  and  shrubs,  order  of, 
6,  297-302. 

Leaning  Hemlocks,  the,  3,  375,  5,  64. 

Learning,  knowledge  and,  13,  371, 
372. 

Leather-wood,  9,  67,  68. 

Leaves,  patterns  of,  in  the  woods,  1, 
184;  Guyot  on.  3,  147,  148;  of 
trees,  little  used  by  man.  3, 61 ;  new- 
fallen.  62,  63;  dry,  compared  to 
maidens,  223;  blown  over  the  snow- 
crust.  274;  painted  beneath,  4,  32; 
reflections  from,  98.  13,  416-418; 
the  sound  made  by,  5,  319;  in- 
sect-eaten, 376,  377;  fallen,  441- 
444;  contrast  between  upper  and 
under  sides  of,  6,  129,  130;  preser- 
vation of.  by  snow,  149;  down  on 
young,  304,  305;  floating  on  water, 
308;  appearance  of,  in  early  sum- 
mer. 327,  328;  two  falls  of.  7,  39; 
eaten  by  insects.  49;  gradualness 
of  change  in,  504;  two  seasons  of 
glory,  512;  cemetery  of,  527;  sunk 
in  snow.  8,  234.  235.  238,  239;  bur- 
nishing of, 9, 52,  53;  lecture  on,  191; 
tracks  of,  on  snow.  211;  whisper- 
ing of  dry,  211;  hanging  on  trees  in 
winter,  221;  order  of  falling,  10,  59; 
fallen,  a  protection  to  birds,  117. 
118;  fallen,  protecting  the  trees, 
170;  beautiful  death  of  the,  11, 155; 
change  of  the,  a  relief  to  the  eye, 
230;  universal  color-change  of,  240; 
the  last  of  the  year,  308,  309;  with- 
ered, use  of,  367,  368;  radical,  in 
spring,  13,  26,  27;  music  of  the.  13, 
299;  season  of  full  expansion.  329; 
injured  by  ^ind,  341,  342;  destruc- 


tion of,  by  insects,  372;  their  yearly 
addition  to  the  soil;  14,  120. 

Lechea.  See  Pinweed. 

Lecturer,  requirements  of  a.  1,  484; 
the  threshing  of  the,  6,  486,  487; 
the  popular  lecturers,  11,  327-329; 
relations  of  audience  and,  13,  9-11. 

Lectures,  a  woman's  lecture,  3,  168; 
a  request  for  a  humorous  lecture, 
7,  89 ;  complaints  about  T.'s,  197; 
a  timid  audience  at  a  lecture,  9, 
237,  238;  disappointing.  10,  228. 

Lecturing,  the  prospect  of.  dismaying, 
7, 46;  cheapening  effects  of,  79.  80; 
at  Amherst,  N.  H.,  9,  187,  188; 
gain  and  loss  of.  214,  215;  at  Fitch- 
burg,  235;  disadvantage  of,  246; 
in  Lynn,  10,  243;  in  New  Eng- 
land towns.  11,  326.  327;  the  most 
successful.  327-329;  at  Worcester, 
453,  457;  success  of,  dependent  on 
hearers,  13,  9-11;  effect  of,  on  the 
uncultivated,  32;  on  John  Brown, 
445  note. 

Ledum,  10,  273,  274,  11,  17;  fra- 
grance of,  10,  449,  492,  13,  394. 

Ledum  Swamp,  draining  of,  11,  241. 

Lee,  of  CJoncord,  13,  212. 

Lee  farmhouse,  9,  255-264. 

Lee's  Cliff,  refuge  in,  9,  387,  392. 

Leeches,  4,  36,  5.  85,  101. 

I^egends,  3,  342.  343. 

Legross,  John,  5,  352,  7,  494. 

Legs,  as  compasses,  3,  51,  52. 

Leisure,  beauty  of,  4,  433. 

Leisureliness.  1,  92. 

Lemna  minor,  7,  436. 

Lemna  polyrhiza,  14,  67,  68. 

Lentago.  See  Viburnum,  sweet. 

Leonard,  Mr.,  of  Bangor,  sportsman, 
9,488. 

Leonidas,  3,  149. 

Lepidium  campettre,  beauty  of,  13, 
201. 

Lepraria  chlorina,  4,  467. 

Leslie,  Sir  John,  3,  9. 

Lespedeza,  9,  9,  10.  24;  in  winter,  8, 
103. 

Lestrigones,  1,  366. 

Lethe,  a  river  of,  flows  through  the 
year,  4,  41. 

Letter,  written  for  an  Irishman,  6, 
158. 

Letters,  ideal  of,  1,  351. 

Lettuce,  tall  {Lactuca  elonoata)^  4, 
206;  maimed.  3,  334. 

Leucippus,  attitude  of,  1,  150. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


402 


INDEX 


Leuoothog,  9,  400. 

Lewis,  the  bliad  man,  his  horse,  5* 
276,  277. 

Lewis,  Alonzo,  10, 244, 245. 

Lexicographer,  the,  10,  290,  291. 

Liatris  scarioaa,  4, 349, 5, 363;  beauty 
of,  12,  317;  empty  heads  of,  13, 
45. 

•'  Liberator,  The,"  newspaper,  2,  179; 
attitude  toward  John  Brown's  raid, 
12,407. 

Libraries,  3,  270,  271.  See  dUo  Har- 
vard Collie  Library. 

".Library  of  Entertaining  Know- 
ledge," 9,  347, 10,  182, 12,  183. 

Lichen,  cladonia,  4,  146,  6,  150,  447, 
12,  40,  45;  on  Mt.  Monadnock.  10, 
470, 14,  46. 

Lichen,  cockscomb,  in  snow  landscape, 
6,  66, 9,  287. 

Lichen,  cup,  3,  345. 

Lichen,  reindeer,  5,  33, 9,  254. 

Lichen,  umbilicaria,  3,  292,  9,  286, 
10,  379,  380. 

Lichen,  Umbilicaria  DiUenii,  10,  18. 

Lichen,  UmbUicaria  MuhlerUiergii, 
boiled  and  tasted,  6,  158. 

Lichens.  2, 88. 92. 95.3, 180, 282. 292. 
321,  4,  488.  5,  8,  6,  63,  110.  8,  62. 
U,  172. 12,  110, 13,  46;  a  circular 
lichen,  2,  95,  96;  a  good  day  for 
study  of,  3,  166,  167;  Chauning  on 
the  study  of,  184;  beauty  of,  234; 
the  apothecium  of,  308;  a  species 
used  in  dyeing,  308;  propagation 
of,  316;  under  the  snow.  356;  or- 
namental, 375;  list  of  species  iden- 
tified, 4,  112,  113;  from  Franconia 
Flume,  302,  303;  dryly  described. 
ff,  45;  a  good  day  for.  7, 129;  white, 
10,  260;  on  Mt.  Monadnock.  469, 
470, 14, 12, 27,  32;  in  White  Moun- 
tains, 11,  19;  the  study  of,  439- 
441.  See  also  Usnea. 

Lies,  4,  143. 
"N  Life,  and  the  duty  of  happiness,  1, 
95;  variety  of,  129;  science  of 
human,  140;  form  of,  142;  the  ma- 
terial of  art.  149;  harmony  of,  156; 
full  of  angularity,  161;  should  not 
require  constant  supervision,  218; 
conformity  of.  232;  when  it  seems 
harmonious.  233;  aim  and  achieve- 
ment, 239;  solitude  in,  239;  to  be 
lived  greatly,  240;  receptivity  in, 
244;  compared  to  a  stream,  244. 
245;  monosyllabic,  255;  the  voy- 


age of.  257.  258;  unmorality  of, 
265;  difficulty  of  earnestness.  272; 
one  obligation  of.  279.  280;  art  of, 
283;  not  a  sojourn,  299;  trade  of, 
300;  passivity  of,  326,  327;  se- 
renity of,  330;  comparison  of*,  to 
river,  347;  its  dependence  on  love, 
348;  strangeness  of.  351,  352;  ad- 
vantages of  primitive,  367;  the 
finer  fruits  of.  381,  382;  the  em- 
phatic. 385.  386;  in  New  England, 
395,  396;  should  be  lone,  408;  in- 
scrutability of,  440;  compared  to 
atmosphere.  441;  should  be  prodi- 
gal, 454;  purification  of,  483;  va- 
rious to  individual  experience.  483; 
its  adequacy  to  its  occasion,  485, 
486;  objectless,  2,  8;  strata  of,  33; 
opposition  to  instinct.  46;  value  of, 
74;  dramatic  interest  of,  152;  a 
pensive  and  joyful,  390-392;  up- 
ward striving  in,  314;  and  its  scen- 
ery, 454;  how  to  get  the  most  out 
of.  469-473;  unfruitful,  3,  10;  a 
leisurely  progress,  182;  seeing  and 
being,  184,  185;  vegetable,  in  man. 
219;  in  the  present.  232;  coloring 
of,  233,  234;  a  journey,  240;  in- 
dividual versus  race,  301;  a  chart 
of,  438;  natural  side  of,  absent 
from  literature.  4,  236;  a  grand 
fact,  430;  bought  at  cost  of  many 
hours.  433;  nobility  of  discipline 
in.  433;  a  battle,  5,  36;  the  moral 
element  in,  293.  294;  insecurity  of, 
under  unjust  governments,  6,  355, 
356;  the  simple,  7,  503,  8,  7.  8, 
204,  205.  9,  160;  in  a  wilderness, 
7,  519,  520;  incompleteness  of,  8, 
221.9,  378;  transiency  of,  8,  229; 
optimistic  view  of,  245;  unfulfilled 
promises  of.  9,  8;  necessity  of  some 
object  in.  36.  37;  theme  for  writing, 
121 ;  animal  compared  with  hu- 
man, 178.  179;  pitiful  necepsities 
of,  192;  the  theme  of  the  writer, 
195;  degrees  of,  218;  simplicity  of, 
strengthening,  246.  247;  out-of- 
door,  simpler,  344;  dreariness  of 
every-day,  364;  stakes  worthy  of 
the  game  of,  480;  true  enjoyment 
of,  10,  6,  7;  surprises  in,  53,  64; 
lost  opportunities  in,  133;  coming 
to  a  head.  222;  worth  living,  227, 
228;  protean,  260, 261;  the  serious- 
ness of,  309 ;  indoor  and  outdoor, 
326;  reward  of  activity  in,  11, 152; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


403 


different  objects  in,  106;  value  of 
imagination  to,  445;  v^etable  and 
animal,  akin,  12*  23;  improving 
the  opportunities  of,  159,  160; 
measured  by  enjoyment,  13,  150; 
small  things  of,  14,  104;  the  suc- 
cessful, 281,  282;  valued  in  money, 
284;  the  narrow,  306. 

Life,  future,  3,  107. 

Life-everlasting.  See  Everlasting. 

Light,  vitality  of,  1,  451 ;  reflections 
of,  from  leaves  and  grass,  4,  08, 
115,  151;  reflected  from  ferns,  217; 
reflected  from  sunset  clouds,  223; 
reflected  from  water,  422;  reflected 
from  fields,  6,  411;  laws  of,  11, 
52,  53;  reflections  of,  in  Novem- 
ber, 307,  308,  331,  336;  reflected 
from  grass  stems,  426;  reflected 
from  snow-crystals,  13,  112,  114; 
reflected  from  awns  of  a  grain-field, 
383. 

*«  Light-hearted,  thoughtless,  shall  I 
take  my  way,"  verse,  1,  05. 

Lighthouses,  2,  36. 

Lightning,  destruction  of  ash  by,  4, 
155,  156;  inscrutability  of,  156, 157; 
compared  to  a  flower,  8,  340;  ef- 
fect of,  on  atmosphere,  450,  451; 
heat,  9,*300;  green,  10,  36;  strik- 
ing a  tree,  441,  442  ;  telegraph- 
posts  struck  by,  14,  415,  416. 

Lightning-rod,  uses  of,  4,  157. 

Lights,  November's  silvery,  11,  307, 
308,  331,  336. 

Lilac,  1,  420,  421. 

Lily,  great  yellow,  or  spatterdock 
{Nuphar  advena) ,  6, 0 ;  expresses  the 
fertiUty  of  the  river,  4,  163,  185; 
a  rich  yellow,  185 ;  roots  of,  7,  400; 
fruit  and  seeds  of,  13,  326;  in  a 
newly  dug  pond.  14,  100,  110. 

Lily,  kalmiana  {NupJiar  lutea  var. 
Kalmiana),  4,  111,  8,  431, 12,  230; 
in  a  newly  dug  pond,  14,  100, 
110. 

Lily,  red.  4, 105,  206,  207,  6,  381,  8, 
400. 

Lily,  white.    See  Water-lily. 

Lily,  yellow  {LUium  Cancuiense), 
4,  210.  6,  302. 10,  13,  14;  pods  of, 
13,  60. 

Lily,  yellow  (Nuphar),  3,  357,  4, 
201,  6,  152,  7,  206.  13,  204;  roots 
of,.  4,  413, 5,  528, 6,  465,  7,  302. 8, 
302;  at  river-bottom,  7,  71;  color 
of,  12,  323;  pads  of,  13,  400. 


Lily  pads,  ff,  124;  like  turnover  plat- 
ters, 6,  266;  shadows  of,  11, 08, 00; 
abundant,  13,  405;  insects  0(i,  408; 
open  spaces  amid,  400;  crowded, 
400. 

Lime,  price  of,  10, 167. 

Limestone,  2,  16. 

Lime-tree,  a  great,  4,  87. 

Linaria.    See  Redpoll,  lesser. 

Lincoln  (Mass.),  graveyard  in,  2, 
10,  20;  altitude  of,  26;  inhabit- 
ants of,  3,  3;  church  in,  9,  356. 

lincoln  (N.  H.),  1,^01. 

Lincoln  Bridge,  fatal  accident  at, 
9,  151;  a  modem  Dragon  of  Want- 
ley,  175,  176. 

Lindley,  John,  on  the  Linnsean  system, 
3,  250,  251. 

Line  of  beauty,  5,  631. 

Linncea  horeaUs,  7,  401,  405,  11,  47. 

Linnsean  system,  3,  250-252. 

Linnseus,  preparing  for  a  campaign, 
1,  05;  his  revenge  on  his  enemies, 
3,  120,  121;  on  Toumefort's  com- 
pliment to  Hermann,  122;  Hal- 
ler  on,  181;  nomenclature  of,  257; 
and  plant  affinities,  286,  287;  on 
character,  288;  recommended  to 
students  of  botany,  308,  300;  on 
propagation  of  flowers,  324;  on 
scientific  terms,  326;  classification 
of  soils  and  plants  by,  346-348; 
**  man  of  flowers,"  4,  00;  on  hawks, 
5,  83;  account  of  Andromeda  Poli- 
iolia,  316. 

Lint,  on  surface  of  water,  6,  326,  327. 

Lion,  the  king  of  beasts,  2,  271;  in 
"  New  England's  Prospect,"  7, 134; 
the  balls  to  kill  lions  with,  8,  403. 

Liquidambar,  9,  136. 

Liquor,  old-fashioned  conveniences 
for  storage  of,  13,  247-240. 

Literature,  classical,  how  formed,  1, 
370,371;  indispensability  of  classi- 
cal, 371;  the  wild  in,  2,  07;  tame^ 
ness  of  English,  144;  comment  on 
official,  11,  456. 

Little  &  Brown's  bookstore,  13»  30. 

Little  John,  1,  20& 

Little  Quitticus  Pond,  9,  327,  328. 

Littleton  Giant,  the,  3,  202,  203, 10, 
131,  132. 

Living,  by  self-defense,  1,  478,  470; 
simplicity  in,  5,  410-412;  and  #Bt- 
ting  a  living,  7,  80. 

Living,  a,    means   of   procuring,   2, 

I      164, 310;  getting.  8,  T.  10, 120, 121; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


404 


INDEX 


T.'s  various  methods  of  getting, 
10,  61. 

lioyd.  Leo  L..  7,  100. 

Loadstone,  2,  169. 

Lobelia,  pale.  4,  172,  173. 

Lobelia  Dortmanna,  7,  275. 

Lobsters,  viciousness  of,  2»  369;  Wil- 
liam Wood  on,  7, 137;  at  two  cents 
apiece,  432;  in  a  pot.  441;  catch- 
ing of,  9,  418. 

Locomotive,  the,  5,  266,  267. 

Locust  (tree),  2,  196,  6,  171. 11,  242, 
13,  336;  blossoms  of,  5,  238,  258, 
6,  333;  pods  of!  135. 

Locust,  alder.  3,  59;  shrilling  of,  14, 
62,  89,  132;  description  of,  64. 

Locusts,  song  of,  2,  316;  expression 
of  July  by.  4, 188;  coming  with  the 
heat,  ff,  248;  locust  days,  373;  a 
light-green  one  seen  shrilling,  386, 
387;  a-ing  of,  8,  415,  12,  274;  the 
thoughts  of  a  locust,  10,  26. 

Logging,  in  Ck)ncord,3,  193,  253,  254. 

London,  Greeley  on  the  routine  in,  3, 
209. 

"I>ondon  labour  and  London  Poor," 
6,  197.  198. 

*•  London  Times,"  3,  26.  4,  236. 

Long  Pond.    See  Cochituate  Pond. 

Long  Pond,  Cape  Cod,  9,  433. 

Long  Pond,  Middleborough,  7,  465, 
466,9,328,329. 

Long  Wharf.  6,  25,  26.  250. 

Ixwn.  in  Walden  Pond,  1,  421,  422; 
laugh  of,  421.  422. 4,  377,  379-381; 
chase  of,  379-381;  depth  reached 
by,  in  diving.  380;  howl  of.  381; 
prayer  of,  381;  in  the  Middle- 
borough  ponds,  7,  471,  475;  nest- 
ing on  Little  Quitticus  Pond,  8, 
396;  on  shore,  10,  209. 

I>oon.  red-throated,  11,  309,  310. 

Loosestrife,  four-leaved,  5,  298. 

Ixjosestrife,  swamp  (Decodon  ver- 
ticillatus),  2,  502,  4,  308,  7,  63, 
9,15. 

Loosestrife,  upright  {Lyrimachia 
8tricta),4n  195,9,  104. 

Loring,  Mr.,  of  Concord.  6,  53. 7,  209. 

Loring.  David,  rumor  confusing  three 
of  the  name,  10,  215,  216. 

Ijoring,  George,  7,  209. 

Ix>ring's  Pond,  islands  in,  2,  124. 

L<^t,  at  night,  5,  63,  64;  a  lost  man 
beside  himself,  7,  109. 

Lotteries,?,  150,  151. 

Lotus,  found  near  Philadelphia,  7, 75. 


Loudon,  John  Claudius,  citations  and 
quotations  of,  8,  387,  9,  496,  497, 
11, 17  note,  41, 12, 18,  352, 14, 147. 
148,  297,  323. 

Lousewort  {PediculariB  Canadenaia), 
4,  73, 5,  129. 

Love,  the  only  remedy  for,  1, 88;  the 
burden  of  all  Nature's  odes,  125; 
as  means  of  reconciliation,  218; 
stability  of.  219;  moods  of,  220; 
as  a  discoverer  of  faults,  228;  how 
it  increases,  228;  lucidity  of,  235; 
yearnings  of,  225;  a  redeeming 
quality,  296;  venturesomeness  of, 
329;  infallibility  of,  412;  how  in- 
spired, 2,  33;  of  men  and  women, 
185;  simpUcity  of  law  of,  4,  348; 
a  medium  for  self-expression,  360; 
holiness  of,  6,  75;  a  thirst,  8,  231; 
sympathy  essential  to,  11,  342. 

"Love,"  verse,  1,  72. 

"Love,  once  among  roses,"  transla- 
tion of  Anacreontic,  1,  70. 

Lovejoy,  Joseph  C,  3,  38. 

Lovelace,  Richard,  1,  467. 

Lowell,  of  Bangor,  T.'s  cousin,  ff,  432, 
433. 

Lowell,  James  RusseU,  bear  killed  by, 

11,  77. 

Lowell  (Mass.),  Whig  victory  cele- 
brated in.  5.  507. 

Lowell  Institute.  11,  328. 

Lucretius,  reading.  8,  312. 

Ludungia  altemifolia,  9,  6. 

L-udwiqia  palustrU,  bulb  of,  8,  300. 

Ludwigia  sphcBrocarpa,  6,  453. 

Lumbering,  methods  of,  9,  76.  77. 

I^unacy,  a  cold  excitement,  3,  7. 

Lunxua,  6,  19. 

Lupine,  4,  81.  82,  90,  5,  197,  213; 
name  of,  4,  90. 

Luxor,  1,  375,  376. 

Lyceum,  the  Concord,  4,  324, 6,  187. 

Lycoperdon  ateUatum.  See  Puffball, 
star-fingered. 

Lycopodium  clavaium,  6,  12,  12,  9. 

Lyaypodium  complanatum^  6,  12,  12, 
454, 14,  123. 

Lycopodium  dendroideuniy  4,  195,  6, 

12,  7,  405,  9,  395. 
Lycopodium    lucidulum,   5,    521,  6, 

12. 
Lycopodium  ohacurum,  6,  12. 
Lycopodiums,  or  evergreens,  2,  304, 

7,  188,  10,  155,  11,  330. 
Lycopus,  6, 419, 7, 113;  fragrance  of, 

9,  196,  197. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


mDEX 


405 


Lydgate,  John,  his  "  Story  of  Thebes," 

I,  357. 

Lyell,  Sir  Charles,  his  "Second  Visit 

to  the  United  States"  quoted,  2, 

364. 
Lynx,  bay.  See  Wildcat. 
Lynx,  Canada,  7,  135,  9,  93,  94,  10, 

283,  14,   78-81,   83-87,   142,  231; 

money  value  of  a,  282,  283. 
Lysimachia  atricta.     See  Loosestrife, 

upright. 

MacCarty,  an  Irishman,  3,  135. 
"  'McDonald,  a  Revolutionary  veteran, 
10,  16,  17. 

MacGillivray,  William,  quoted,  7, 
299,  346-348,  350,  351,  366  note, 
^67. 

McKean,  of  Concord,  3,  137;  on 
methods  of  felUng  trees,  173;  re- 
spected by  Channing,  197;  T.'s 
estimate  of,  230. 

MacManus,  T.'s  helper,  on  willow 
roots,  9,  225,251. 

Mackerel,  mackerel  sky  and,  11,  410, 
457. 

Mackerel-fishing,  2,  351-353,  7,  439. 

Mactaggart,  John,  2,  225. 

Macy,  Obed,  7,  97. 

Magazine,  a  new,  10,  228;  lack  of 
freedom  of  the,  11,  324. 

Magna  Charta.  1,  335. 

Magnet,  2,  168.  169. 

Magnolia  swamp,  the,  near  Gloucester, 

II,  175. 
Magnus,  King,  3.  203. 
Mahogany,  2,  200. 

Mahomet,  celestial  journey  of,  2,  180. 

Mahometans,  compared  with  Chris- 
tians, 3,  20,  21. 

Maiden,  queen  of  nature,  1,  292. 

Main  chance,  sought  by  some  men,  4, 
45. 

Maine,  excursions  in,  1, 46-49, 5, 424- 
433,  456, 9,  484-503. 

Mallows,  called  cheeses,  12,  341,  342. 

Mammals.   See  Quadrupeds. 

Man,  brave  and  cowardly,  1,  79;  lik- 
ened to  Roman  Forum,  84;  the 
perfect,  119;  discourse  of,  149;  sin- 
cerity of,  175;  likened  to  a  tree, 
216;  a  paradox,  216;  the  mystery 
of,  230;  incompleteness  of,  233; 
ideality  of,  235;  inferior  to  nature, 
240;  unexplored  character  of,  254, 
255;  conscience  of,  257;  godlike 
nature  of,  258;  central  in  universe, 


274;  Hindoo  conception  of,  275; 
his  actions  in  acconl  with  Nature, 
281;  his  destiny  compared  to  stars, 
338,  339;  a  pensioner  of  Nature, 
344;  respectability  of,  354;  an  inter- 
loper in  nature,  356;  asubjectof  ex- 
periment, 364;  his  search  for  truth, 
441;  sometimes  mere  pudding- 
stone,  466;  civilized  and  savage,  2f 
124;  compared  with  plants,  201-205; 
our  contemporary,  207;  existence 
of,  in  nature,  208;  as  a  carnivorous 
animal,  390;  compared  to  monkeys, 
401,  402;  barren  intellect  of,  413; 
impresses  his  character  on  animals, 
453;  aerial  diet  of,  462;  meanness 
of,  3,  23,  24;  his  relation  to  ma- 
terial things,  36;  intellectual  life  in 
winter  and  summer,  70;  intellec- 
tual and  moral  state  of ,  71;  com- 
pared to  a  pine,  170;  not  an  annual, 
188;  mind  of,  in  youth  and  age, 
203,  204;  singularity  of,  286;  in- 
significance of,  381 ,  382;  two  species 
of,  460,  461;  a  mean  and  wretched 
creature,  4.  146;  growth  of.  com" 
pared  to  trees,  227,  228;  his  do- 
minion over  the  world,  405,  406;  a 
description  of.  5,  39;  compared 
with  the  cockerel,  216;  hunter  stage 
of  development  of,  304,  305;  a 
grub,  349;  cessation  of  his  interest 
in  morning  and  spring,  393;  as  a 
musical  instrument,  424;  likened 
to  a  pool  of  water,  453, 454;  likened 
to  a  plant,  508,  509;  dormant  in 
winter,  6,  38;  his  invention  of  the 
house,  96;  his  susceptibility  to 
music,  193, 194;  artificer  of  his  own 
fate,  226;  compared  to  a  turtle,  7, 
10;  identified  with  earth,  53;  a 
beast  of  prey,  510;  his  rights  in 
Nature,  8,  19;  inferior  to  the  elm 
tree,  139-141;  a  locked-up  chest, 
142;  his  capacity  for  divine  life, 
294;  a  part  of  nature,  341;  a  pre- 
valent force,  9, 144;  bis  relation  to 
the  animals,  192,  194;  transiency 
of,  224;  self-imposed  limitations  of, 
235-237;  his  relations  to  the  earth, 
384;  his  correspondence  to  the 
seasons,  407;  his  ownership  of 
land  imaginary,  471,  472;  migra- 
tions of,  10,  49;  rejoicing  in  the 
autumn,  72;  maturing  like  a  tree, 
95;  correspondence  of,  to  Nature, 
127;    compared  to  an  apple  tree. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


406 


INDEX 


137. 138;  likened  to  a  squash,  261; 
heedlessness  of,  11,  126;  likened  to 
an  hour-glass,  270;  the  chief  end 
of,, 12,  170,  171:  ripening  in  the 
autumn,  302;  want  of  energy  and 
precision  in,  329,  330;  the  house 
and,  330,  331;  curse  attached  to 
habitations  of,  340;  duty  and,  344; 
in  the  tropics.  365;  independent  of 
luxuries,  14,  259.  See  also  Mankind 
and  Men. . 

"Man,  man  is  the  devil,"  verse,  4, 
445. 

Mandeville,  Sir  John,  quoted,  3,  149. 

Mankind,  to  be  greatly  related  to,  1, 
354,  355;   relation  to,  3,  194. 

Mann,  Horace,  statue  of,  13,  335. 

Mann,  Horace,  Jr.,  14,  102,  109,  309, 
313,  314,  337-339. 

Manner,  fatal  excess  of,  11 ,  194. 

Manners,  conscious,  2,  163;  the  best, 
3,  256;  artificiality  of,  6, 199,  200; 
rigidity  caused  by.  9, 265;  falseness 
of,  277;  objectionableness  of,  400; 
a  skim-coat,  10,  332;  the  best  and 
the  worst,  12,  370. 

Mansions,  of  the  air,  1,  274,  375. 

Manure,  the  farmer  and,  2,  445;  im- 
portance of  keeping  seeds  out  of,  S, 
52;  result  of  excessive  use  of,  12, 
343. 

Manuscripts,  method  of  revision  of,  6, 
146;  method  of  criticism  of,  190. 

Maple,  spotted  leaves  of,  4,  91;  re- 
flections from  leaves  of,  1 51 ;  sap  of, 
6,  154;  effect  of  drought  on,  470; 
seedling  growth  of,  9,  474. 

Maple,  mountain,  4,  346. 

Maple,  red,  2, 71,3, 336, 479  and  note, 
6,  432,  7,  369,  8,  211;  in  autumn- 
dress,  3,  15,  35,  43,  7,  55,  58,  513. 
10,  46-48.  61,  67,  68,  11,  189,  199, 
334, 14, 107. 108;  in  blossom.  4, 19. 
26,  33,  6,  95,  107,  6,  244.  245,  7, 
334-336,  345,  8,  318,  321,  10,  428, 
12,  166,  13*,  260;  keys  of,  6,  178. 
10,  418.  419, 13,  296.  297;  bare,  5, 
440. 6,  87,  7,  493;  buds  of.  6,  462; 
sap  of,  6,  150.  7,  233,  236.  8,  207- 
209.  216.  217.  219.  220.9,  275.  285; 
scent  of  fallen  leaves  of,  7,  510; 
tapping.  8,  207.  208;  a  virtuous, 
10,  46-48;  squirrel  and  keys  of, 
418,  419;  eflfect  of  fire  on,  480;  lik- 
ened to  light  infantry,  11,  334; 
growth  from  seed.  14,  5-7,  72. 

Maple,  striped,  4,  346. 


Maple,  sugar  or  rock,  5,  116,  7,  359, 

10,  433;  a  grove  of,  3,  17, 14,  221; 
in  blossom,  5, 161;  in  autumn  dress, 
451,  7,  513,  11,  199,  217,  218,  14, 
221;  fallen  leaves  of,  7, 515;  tapping, 
9,  340,  341;    keys  of,  14,  7. 

Maple,  white,  3,  479  and  note,  4,  6,  8, 
37,  7,  226,  8,  148,  225,  10,  60,  ll", 
121;  in  blossom,  5,  42,  62,  99,  6, 
192,  7,  287.  301.  8,  277;  keys  of,  6, 
123, 178;  tipped  over  by  ice,  7, 216; 
torn  up  by  ice,  222;  blossom-buds 
of,  253;  tapping,  8,  207;  sap  of, 
218,  219,  225;  growth  of  wood 
tested,  0,  224;    in  autumnal  dress, 

11,  121,  209,  256. 

Maple  sap  and  sugar;  6,  150,  154,  7, 
233,  236,  8,  207-209,  211,  215-220, 
225,  226,  9,  275,  285,  10,  270. 

Maple  swamp,  in  bloom,  4,  33;  de- 
stroyed by  ice,  7,  247,  248;  like 
smoke,  493;  scent  of,  510;  in 
October.  10,  61,  11,  189. 

Maps.  2,  369,  14,  228,  229. 

Marblehead,  visit  to,  11,  171,  172; 
rocks  of,  172. 

March,  windy,  5, 20;  peculiar  scenery 
of,  6,  165,  166;  difficulty  of  sub- 
sistence in,  7,  276;  usual  pheno- 
mena of,  13, 208-210,  218, 219, 221- 
229. 

Marchantia  polymorpha,  5,  408,  9, 
400. 

Market,  the  ancient  and  the  modem, 
6,  111,  112;  ideal  of,  228. 

Marlowe,  Christopher,  1,  465,  476. 

Marriage,  2,  185;  social  gatherings 
and,  3,  115;  attitude  of  most  men 
toward,  5,  369;  mistakes  in,  12, 
384. 

Marshes,  fragrance  of,  6,  288. 

Marston,  John,  5,  242. 

Marsyas,  1,  392,  393. 

Marten,  pine,  7,  485;  foot  of,  239. 

Martin,  purple,  flight  of.  3,  427;  notes 
of.  4,  37,  8,  284;  preparing  to  mi- 
grate, 11,  135. 

Martineau,  Harriet,  a  book  by,  2, 
468. 

Mary,  Irish  servant,  5,  234. 

Maryland,  and  her  lotteries,  7,  150, 
151. 

Mason,  employed  as,  10,  61,  62.  See 
also  Stone-mason. 

Massachusetts,  education  in,  3,  24- 
26;  attitude  toward  slavery,  6, 
313-315.  339,  340.  364-366;    gov- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


407 


emment  of,  355,  356;  need  of  free 
men  in,  367;  duty  of,  370;  com- 
pared to  New  Hampshire,  11,  55; 
attitude  of  lier  legislature  towards 
John  Brown,  12,  445;  the  most 
primitive  oak  wood  in,  14,  228. 

Mass^na  collection  of  birds,  7,  74  and 
note. 

Materia  Medica,  2,  219;  literary  fa- 
ther of,  3,  118. 

Mather,  Cotton,  library  of,  7, 09;  as  a 
writer,  109;  quoted,  8,  163-165. 

Matter,  capable  of  thought,  1,  488. 

Maushop,  the  Indian  giant,  9,  448, 
449. 

May  (the  month),  6,  224;  compared 
with  June,  13,  370. 

••  May  Morning,"  verse,  1,  49. 

May-Flower,  a  favorite  name  for 
vessels,  7,  182. 

Mayflower  {Epigaea  repena),  3,  480; 
flower-buds  of,  12,  114. 

Mayhew,  Henry,  quoted,  6,  197,  198. 

Maynard,  of  Sudbury,  his  premises, 
14,  260. 

Mayweed,  2,  332,  4,  141;  misnamed, 
9,83. 

Meadows,  the  different  states  of  the 
Concord,  3,  425,  426;  shores  of,  429; 
on  Assabet,  4,  186,  187;  burning 
of  the,  6,  442,  443;  appearance  of, 
on  hazy  days,  454;  appearance  of, 
when  burned,  468;  effect  of  fire  on, 
490;  reasons  for  bare  spots  in,  8, 
226;  phenomenon  of  ridges  in,  323. 

Meadow-beauty.  See  Rhexia. 

Meadow-crust,  transported  by  the 
ice,  2, 166,  167,6,  482,  484,7,216, 
217,  221-223,  245,  296,  12,  135- 
139.  227-229. 

Meadow-grass,  waving  of,  4,  218; 
in  former  times,  7,  132. 

Meadow-haying,  methods  of,  6,  422, 
423.  428,  429. 

Meadow-hen.  11,  239.  See  also  Rail, 
Virginia. 

Meadow-rue,  tall  (Thalictrum  Cor- 
nuti),  4,  231. 10,  98;  scent  of,  6, 
273,  6,  324,  8,  357.  358. 

Meadow-rue.  early  {ThcUictrum  dioi- 
cum),  10,  421. 

Meadow-sweet,  5,  283;  its  raceme  in 
winter,  8,  72;  seeds  of,  13,  31. 

Mechanic,  work  of  the,  1,  215. 

Medeola,  or  cucumber-root,  4,  71,  80; 
berries  of.  359.  6,  415.  7,  38. 

"  Medical  Botany,"  of  Bigelow,  2,  261. 


Medicine,  in  plants,  2,  214. 

Meeks,  of  Concord,  the  carpenter,  7* 

137, 10,  216. 
Melancholy,  2,  45. 
"Mel-dews,"  4,  85. 
Melody,  suggestiveness  of,  4, 274, 275. 
Melons,  6,  364,  365.  378,  9,  483,  484. 

See  also  Watermelons. 
Melrose,  schooner,  7,  431,  432. 
Melvin,  the  sexton,  12,  104. 
Melvin,  George,  4,  467, 6,  211, 6,  203, 

7, 154, 256, 8,  38.9, 87, 10, 413, 12, 

67,  192, 14,  78,  294;   on  muskrats, 

1,  581 ,  11, 431;  and  the  pink  azalea, 
5, 204-208;  taking  his  gun  to  work, 
208;  muskrat-shooting.  8,  257, 10, 
140. 302;  gratitude  for  the  existence 
of,  9, 148, 151 ;  talks  with,  456, 457, 
10,  100;  catching  ducks  in  traps, 
100:  barberrying  and  nutting.  111; 
capturing  partridges,  112;  and  the 
widow  Hildreth's  chestnuts,  173; 
tells  fish  stories,  379;  his  tracks  in 
the  snow,  13,  127,  128. 

Melvin,  Jonas,  and   the  widow   Hil- 
dreth's chestnuts.  10,  173. 

Memory,  reality  in,  1,  305;  goes  down 
in  oblivion,  4,  41. 

Men,  not  to  be  judged  by  deeds,  1,  \ 
215;  unused.  297.  298;  meetings 
between,  382,  383;  compared  by 
ideals,  431;  increase  of  those  felt 
rather  than  understood,  451;  de- 
sire of,  to  know  personally  the 
great.  469;  compared  with  women, 

2,  116;  low  aims  of,  267;  value  of, 
in  Canada  and  the  United  States, 
399;  observed  as  animals,  421; 
looked  at  too  much  in  the  gross,  492; 
association    with,    a    d^radation, 

3,  5;  the  real  forms  of,  137 ;  their 
views  of  the  universe,  384;  expedi- 
tation  of,  419;  obscure  through 
manners,  4,  46,  47;  easily  trans- 
planted. 54;  -  slow  to.  circumnavi- 
gate knowledge,  289;  insincerity 
of  intercourse  of,  313-315;  nat- 
ural mummies,  6,  10;  powers  of 
observation  of.  51;  the  difference 
between,  369;  fungus-covered,  503; 
must  demand  the  best  of  men,  6, 
21;  conventionality  of,  70,  71; 
awful  consistency  of  a  man,  123, 
124;  likened  to  puffballs.  199,  200; 
a  man  separated  from  the  multi- 
tude, 7,  492;  old  in  crime,  515; 
prejudices  of,  8,  146;  varied  tal- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


408 


INDEX 


ents  of,  102;  limitations  of  their 
knowledge,  246;  a  man  of  the  old 
school.  465;  dreaming  of  impracti- 
cable things,  9,  169;  world-ridden, 
362;  lack  of  enterprise  of,  390; 
poor  crack-brains,  10,  53;  effect  of 
place  of  residence  on,  70;  at  home, 
190,  191;  association  with,  unpro- 
fitable. 204;  fatality  governing,  251. 
252 ;  a  man's  relations  to  Na- 
ture, 252;  indoor  and  outdoor.  326; 
gregariousness  of,  350,  351;  too 
great  ambitions  of,  11,  304;  tracks 
of,  in  snow,  321,  322,  353,  354; 
appetite  of,  for  novelty,  13,  65,  66; 
mercenary  minds  of.  Ill;  industry 
of,  242;  promising,  329;  growth  of, 
in  different  zones,  334,  335;  effect 
on  nature  of  baseness  of,  343;  in- 
finite promise  of  a  man,  369 ; 
thoughts  of,  corresponding  to  the 
man  himself,  13,  69,  70;  receptivity 
of,  77,  78;  stupidity  of,  145;  easily 
imposed  on,  14,  278;  success  and 
failure  of,  281,  282;  narrow  life  of, 
306. 

Men,  white,  the  colors  of,  4,  92.  93. 

Menagerie,  a  visit  to  a,  3,  271;  mu- 
sic in  a,  356;  an  ill-managed,  367- 
369. 

Menan,  Louis,  9,  199. 

Menhaden,  back  fins  of,  8,  398. 

Menu,  1,  268;  quoted,  229,  263;  the 
•  "Laws  of  Menu,"  264,  266,  267, 
279,  280. 

Merchant,  and  farmer,  1,  78. 

Merganser,  red-breasted,  6,  215.  See 
cUao  Sheldrake. 

Merman,  discovery  of  a,  9,  337. 

Merriam,  Francis  Jackson,  13,  3  and 
note,  4. 

Merriam,  Joseph,  2,  167;  duck-shoot- 
ing, 9,  466,  467. 

Merrimack  (N.  H.).  1,  91. 

Merrimack  River,  boat  journey  on,  1, 
91;  wildness  of  parts  of,  451;  but- 
tonwood  trees  on  the  banks  of  the, 
2t  10;  in  spring,  5,  111;  walk  by, 
9,  189;  reaches  of,  11,  4. 

"Methinks  all  things  have  travelled 
since  you  shined,"  verse,  1,  243. 

"  Methinks  that  by  a  strict  behavior," 
verse,  1,  457. 

Mexico,  table-land  of,  2,  243. 

Michaux,  F.  Andrew,  quoted,  2,  142, 
195-201,  211,  9,  396  note,  414, 11, 
385;  on  the  Ohio,  2,  230-232. 


Michigan,  wild  horses  of,  2«  38. 

Mickle,  William  Julius,  1,  288. 

Microscope,  7,  61. 

Middleborough,  7,  472-474,  477.  478, 
484. 

Middleborough  ponds,  the,  7,  465- 
467.  471-479, 9,  327-330. 

Mikania  ecandene,  6,  337, 14,  73,  74; 
married  to  the  button-bush,  ]2« 
336. 

Mildew,  on  ground,  9,  267,  269. 

Miles,  Charles,  his  swamp,  1, 270, 271, 
4,  280,  281. 

Miles,  Martial,  6,  147,  8,  192;  a  talk 
with,  191;  his  cider,  193. 

Miles,  Warren,  12,  277;  and  his  mill, 
8,  190. 191,  303, 304, 310,  326-328, 
9,201. 

Milk,  Captain  Minott's  nightly  quart, 
14,  329. 

Milkmen,  early  risers,  2,  386. 

Milkweed,  pods  and  seeds  of.  3,  57, 
58,  63.  128,  U,  246, 14,  63;  flowers 
of,  4,  284;  unidentified  species  of, 
6,404. 

Milkweed,  common  {Aadepiae  Cor- 
nuH  or  Syriaca),  8,  400;  pods  and 
seeds  of,  3, 17-20,  23,4,  396.9,  96. 
126. 

Milkweed,  water  {A.  incamata),  5, 
323;  fibre  of,  2,  314,  8,  119;  pods 
and  seeds  of.  8,  71,  72,  9,  99; 
flowers  of,  11,  70. 

Milky  Way,  4,  470. 

Miller.  Hugh,  quoted.  2, 172. 3,  30. 

Millers,  black-winged,  7,  4()9. 

Mills,  gingham,  at  Clinton,  2,  134. 
135;  coach-lace.  136;  a  wire-roll- 
ing mill,  7,  101. 102;  cobweb  drap- 
ery at  a  mill.  11,  224,  225.  363.  See 
also  Sawmills. 

Millstones,  primitive  way  of  getting 
out,  10,  246. 

Milton,  John,  quoted,  1,  183.  7,  28; 
lack  of  moral  discrimination  in,  1, 
218. 

Milton  (Mass.).  2,  46. 

Mimnlue  ringena.  4,  285. 9,  5. 

MIn,  the  Thoreaus'  cat,  8, 158,9, 141; 
playing  the  prodigal  son,  8,  192, 
193;    and  a  mouse,  9,  154,  155. 

Mind,  the  sovereign  of  nature,  1, 488; 
development  of,  2,  203-205;  chas- 
tity of.  289-291;  moods  of,  340; 
in  winter  and  summer.  3,  70;  the 
sky  and,  201;  in  youth  and  age, 
203,  204;    during  sleep,  354;  loses 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


409 


adipose  tissue  in  America,  4,  20; 

atmosphere  of,  in  the  evening,  6, 

254, 
Minds,  should  echo  to  music,  4,  144. 
Mine,  lead.  4,  54. 
Miner,  Lewis,  8,  170. 
Ministerial  Lot,  surveyed,  3,  122  flf. 
Mink.  3,  160,  4,  421,  8,  40,  194,  259. 

9,346,  12,43,67,13,267;  gnaws 

off  legs  in  trap,  1,  4S1;   tracks  of. 

5,  10,  11,7, 163;  swimming,  6, 492. 

6,  17;  preying  on  frogs,  7,  207; 
value  of  skin  of,  248;  enemy  of 
birds.  252;  hunting  at  night,  270; 
carrying  a  muskrat.  8, 22;  Minott's 
account  of.  31,  32;  money  value  of, 
34;   odor  of,  36;  a  near  view  of  a, 

10,  369;  not  eaten  by  other  ani- 
mals, 13,  205;  feeding  young,  259. 

Minnesota,  trip  to,  14,  339,  340. 

Minnows,  1,  475.  476.  6,  14.  7,  207, 
8,  414.  415.  10,  392,  11,  346,  347, 
454;  swallowed  by  pickerel.  5,  307, 

11,  75;  leaping  out  of  water.  8,  3; 
method  of  keeping  alive,  9,  308, 
309;  muscular  vigor  of,  477.  See 
also  Shiner. 

Minos,  1,  391. 

Minott,  Captain,  second  husband  of 
t.'s  grandmother,  14,  329,  330. 

Minott,  George,  3,  87.  128,  5,  221,  6, 
211, 7,  239, 8,  25, 11,  374;  a  poeti- 
cai  farmer,  3,  41-43;  his  methods  of 
farming,  67;  a  hunting  adventure 
of.  69;  a  walk  with,  108,  109;  on 
snow-shoes,  193;  on  the  care  of 
hay,  358;  on  stake-drivers,  4,  124; 
on  the  striped  squirrel's  bark,  5, 12; 
tells  a  mad-dog  story,  522-525; 
the  site  of  his  house,  6,  147;  his 
attitude  toward  death,  152;  his 
visits  to  Boston,  175;  on  foxes,  7, 
154.  155;  on  the  rabbit,  169;  on 
partridges,  quails,  etc..  211,  212; 
tells  an  owl  story,  380;  a  story 
about  ants,  398;  on  the  migration 
of  swallows,  449;  his  cats,  8,  31; 
tells  a  story  of  a  September  gale. 
150,  151;  as  a  story-teller,  194, 10, 
56,  266;  Emerson  and,  8, 195;  talks 
of  Uncle  Charles,  245;  talks  with, 
308,  9, 129-132, 212, 213, 273,  274, 
356. 10,  54,  163.  164.  11,  108,  109, 
190,  191;  on  meadow-grass.  9,  6; 
on  General  Hull,  94;  on  meadow- 
hay.  94,  95;  on  the  relation  be- 
tween strong  drink  and  mowing, 


95,  288;  tells  hunting  story,  122, 
tells  anecdote  of  bacon-eating,  141; 
142;  on  wood-cutting,  177,  178; 
tells  story  of  song  sparrow,  230;  on 
the  Cold  Friday.  230;  tells  story  of 
crazy  hen,  239;  on  ducks.  467;  dis- 
covers a  squirrel's  storehouse,  10, 
41;  in  his  wood-shed,  51-53;  tells 
peach  tree  story,  63;  recollections 
of  an  old  grist-mill.  87;  in  accord 
with  nature,  168;  his  house,  207, 
208;  his  ear  for  bird-notes,  265; 
tells  gtory  of  a  slave.  284,  285;  on 
Indian  creels,  313  note;  his  hunting 
stories,  11,  108,  223.  224;  criti- 
cises Shattuck's  History  of  Con- 
cord, 110;  on  meadow-haying,  128. 
129;  his  reminiscences  of  the  Great 
Meadows.  12, 281, 282;  tells  animal 
stories,  13, 103, 104;  ill  with  dropsy, 
410. 

Minott.  Deacon  George,  brother  of 
Captain  M.,  10,  219. 

Minott,  Miss  Mary,  7, 239, 8, 127, 160; 
talks  of  her  brother  George,  9,  212; 
her  old  furniture,  274;  death  of, 
14,  321. 

Minott.  Thomas,  secretary  of  the 
Abbot  of  Walden  in  Essex,  10, 
219. 

Mirabeau,  1,  429;  as  a  highwayman. 
2,  332,  333. 

Miracles.  2,  33;  attitude  of  Hindoos 
toward,  4,  2.5a 

Mirage.  3,  290,  291;  sets  landscape 
in  motion,  4,  39;  on  Buzzard's 
Bay,  10,  15. 

Mirick,  B.  L..  3,  282  note. 

Misfortune,  a  beneficent,  11,  196. 

Missionaries.  9,  208. 

Mississippi  River,  panorama  of  the, 
2,  146.  147. 

Mist.  4,  105.  239.  5,  257.  8,  316,  9, 
174;  formation  of,  5,  513;  silver- 
ing the  water,  7,  294;  like  a  roof, 

8,  14;  reflections  from,  16;  frozen, 
46.  See  aUo  Fog  and  Vapor. 

Mitchell,  Henry,  14,  343. 

Mitchella  repene,  or  partridge-berry, 
4,  129,  265.  6,  12.  12,  386;  ap- 
propriately called  "checkerberry." 
2,  100.  3,  89;  scent  of  flowers,  6, 
372, 12,  217. 

Mob,  rests  on  air,  4,  16. 

Mocker-nut,  nuts  of.  ff,  486.  487,  518, 

9,  414, 11,  334, 12,  326;  autumnal 
foliage  of,  10, 90. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


410 


INDEX 


Mockingbird,  6,  453. 

Mole.  1,  425. 3,  317,  318,  7,  201, 202, 
231.  241.  460;  tracks  of,  13,  162; 
at  work  in  March.  185. 

Mole,  shrew,  7,  219  note.  See  also 
Shrew. 

Mole,  star-nosed  8,  367,  368;  tracks 
of,  173. 

Manarda  fUtuloaa,  6,  403, 9,  4. 

Money,  hard  to  spend  well,  1,  488; 
found  and  earned,  2,  58;  the  value 
of,  5*  357;  in  the  rain,  494;  hidden 
by  pirates,  7,  69, 70;  digging  for,  9, 
168,  169;  investments  of,  10,  92, 
93;  effect  of  possession  of,  258, 
259;  method  of  whitening  silver, 
11,  42;  undue  stress  laid  on.  12, 
111;  value  placed  upon,  14,  282- 
284.  See  aZ«o  Wealth. 

Money-diggers,  holes  of,  8,  419. 

Monkeys,  compared  to  men,  2,  401, 
402. 

Monroe,  7,  53. 

Monroe,  William,  raising  teasels,  0, 
84. 

Monroe,  Mrs.  William,  her  reminis- 
cences of  T.'s  grandparents,  10, 
252,  275,  278. 

Montaigne,  3,  239. 

Montanus,  on  wind-hairs  of  beaver. 
6,  136. 

Montevideo,  aspect  of  country  af- 
fected by  cattle,  2,  242. 

Montreal.  2,  73;  books  in,  77;  soldiers 
in.  398. 

Moods,  critics  of  each  other,  3,  171. 

Moody.  Mrs.  on  nut-eating.  9,  182. 

Moody,  Harvey,  a  guide,  9,  72. 

Moody,  Loring.  6,  263.  264. 

Moon,  the,  theatre  of  world's  drama. 

1,  262;  unappreciated,  2,  195;  re- 
flections of,  on  the  water.  252.  253; 
a  disciple  of  the  sun.  298.  299;  a 
picture  of  the,  337;  half  full,  371; 
her  war  with  the  clouds,  374,  383. 
384, 4,  78. 145;  seen  between  trees, 

2,  379;  put  out  by  the  sun.  385, 
386;  suggestiveness  of,  470;  its 
influence  on  man, 3, 7, 8;  compared 
with  the  sun,  8;  new.  like  cheese, 
79;  looks  larger  in  America  than  in 
Europe,  268:  singular  circle  around. 
359,  360;  by  daylight,  484;  a 
mediator,  4,  161;  like  a  burnished 
cloud,  164;  eclipsed  by  clouds.  5, 
320;  midsummer  night's,  321; 
reason  for  shining,  344;  likened  to 


a  Kghthouse,  7«  23;  surface  o^  205; 
map  of,  10,  198. 

Moon,  the  Harvest,  2.  259,  3,  9.  6, 
112. 

Moon,  the  Invalid's,  2,  379. 

Moon,  the  Midsummer-Night,  2,  238, 
5,  321. 

Moonlight,  restorer  of  antiquity,  1, 
281.  282;  compared  with  sunlight, 
2,  235;  woodland  paths  in,  237;  on 
the  water,.  248.  249;  compared 
with  daylight.  249.  250;  in  lonely 
pastures.  260;  sobering  efifect  of, 
372;  landscape  seen  from  an  eleva- 
tion by,  464;  walks  by.  3,  39.  40. 4, 
145,  146;  fairies  made  for,  3,  47; 
like  money,  50;  phosphorescent. 
388;  reflected  from  atmosphere,  4, 
12;  writing  by.  5, 278;  spirituality 
of,  7,  50;  simplifying  effect  of,  51; 
as  an  illustrated  theme,  59. 

Moonrise,  a  faint  sunrise,  3,  109;  the 
moon's  aurora.  4, 175. 176;  a  beau- 
tiful, 7,  22;    described,  11,  179. 

Moore,  a  slaveholder.  5,  472. 

Moore,  on  willow  creels,  10,  312. 

Moore.  Abel.  9,  251. 

Moore.  J.  B..  8,  112, 10,  366. 

Moore,  John,  6,  93. 

Moose,  horns  of,  2,  112,  113, 0,  485; 
at  Fair  Haven.  5, 16;  measurements 
of,  425;  tracks  of,  458;  skeleton 
of,  521;  voice  of,  10,  293. 

Moose-hunting.  7,  447.  , 

Moosehead  Lake,  visits  to,  5,  426, 9, 
489-491. 

Morality,  definition  of,  1,  263;  un- 
healthiness  of,  316;  tested  by  per- 
ception of  beauty,  4,  126. 

Morning,  effect  of,  on  man,  1,  75; 
relation  <  to  eveni  ng,  1 52 ;  familiar- 
ity  with,  2,  315,  316;  compared 
with  evening,  503,  4,  333;  spiritual 
vision  of,  96;  a  morning  for  any 
adventure,  232,  233;  "mornings 
of  creation,"  478. 

Morning-glory,  wild  (Convolvidus  «c- 
pium),  4,  216,  5,  289,  295,  330; 
associated  with  the  holiest  morn- 
ing hours,  4,  142;  well  named,  6, 
364. 

Morphy,  Paul  Charles,  chess-player, 
12,66. 

Morrison's  Inn,  White  Mountains,  11, 
51. 

Morse.  Rufus.  10,  220. 

Morse's  Gazetteer,  quoted,  14,  43. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


411 


Mortar,  specimen  of  old,  p,  259;  clay 
used  for,  259.  263,  276. 

Morton,  Edwin,  11,  398. 

Morton,  Frank,  8,190. 

Morton,  Dr.  Samuel  George,  4,  146; 
quoted  on  motto  on  Chinese  por- 
celains, 205;  quoted  on  Peruvian 
mummies,  228;  his  collection  of 
crania,  7,  74. 

Morton,  Thomas,  his  "New  English 
Canaan  "  quoted,  9,  288. 

Moses,  1,  371;  the  world's  attitude 
toward,  3,  119. 

Mosquitoes.  1,  141,  5,  359,  7,  110, 
404, 11,  14. 

Moss,  6,  85,  9,  347.  12,  12,  110.  13, 
286;  layers  of,  2,  120;  rings  of, 
298;  in  a  spruce  swamp,  3,  138; 
nourished  by  snow,  248;  rich  effect 
of,  467;    from  Franconian  flume, 

4,  302;  holding  the  rain,  5,  173; 
food  of  mice,  7,  232,  233,  247; 
cushions  of.  9,  341;  heaved  up  by 
ice.  10,  283.  284;  on  Monadnock, 
466;  water-mosses,  IS,  279.  See 
aUo  Lichens  and  Usnea. 

Moss,  Irish.  S,  347. 

Moss,  Spanish,  6,  450. 

Moth,    cecropia    {AttacuB    cecropia), 

9,  442,  455,  456;  cocoons  o£,  6,  73; 

just  out  of  cocoon,  7,  401,  402. 
Moth,  luna  (AUacua  luna), 4, 202, 203, 

5,  226,  309, 10,  509;  Dr.  Harris  on, 
4,259. 

Moth,  Promethea  (.4  ttacus  Promethea) , 

9,  470,  471;    cocoons  of,  2,  125,  6, 

73,  131. 
Moth,  sphinx,  pupse  of,  9,  357. 
Mother-Carey' s-chicken.  picked  up  on 

Cape  Cod,  9,  438,  439.     See  also 

Petrels. 
Motherwort.  4,  161. 
Moths,  wings  of  a  moth  falling  to 

the  ground,  4,  259;    cocoons  of,  6, 

19. 
Mouni,  the,  2,  191. 
Mt.  Adams,  11,  21. 
Mt.  Agamenticus,  11,  178. 
Mt.  Ararat,  Cape  Cod.  9,  452. 
Mt.  Chocorua,  11,  9,  12. 
Mt.  Jefferson,  11,  21. 
Mt.  Lafayette,  ascent  of,  11,  44-52. 
Mt.  Monadnock,  4,  161;  wolves  on, 

345,  346;    view  of,  from  distance, 

365, 366;  visits  to,  10, 452-480, 14, 

8-52. 
Mount  Sab^r.  1,  343. 


Mt.  Wachusett,  3,  483.  4,  64.  161. 
262;  seen  from  Fair  Haven.  273. 
274;  h'ke  a  whale,  6,  30;  visit  to, 
7,  64,  63. 

Mt.  Washington,  1,  91,  10,  13,  11, 
12-14;  ascent  of  and  stay  on,  15- 
37,  57,  58;  seen  from  Jefferson 
Hill,  38-40;  plants  of,  59-61; 
ownership  of  top  of,  14,  305. 

Mountain-ash,  7,  339;  roots  of.  10, 
476;   fruit  of,  12,  342. 

Mountain-ash,  European,  9,  60. 

Mountain-climbing,  9,  75;  outfit  for. 
14,  51,  52. 

Mountains,  far  and  near,  2,  18;  seen 
after  the  fall  of  the  leaves,  3,  112; 
preferred  to  pastures,  113;  saddle- 
cloth of  the  sun  on.  371;  in  the 
horizon,  valuation  of,  4,  263,  264; 
inspiring  suggestion  of,  273,  274; 
distant  aspect  of,  339,  340.  ft,  77; 
in  the  horizon,  141,  10,  119,  120; 
a  dream  mountain.  141-144;  ex- 
ponents of  the  higher  life,  161; 
elevating  Influence  of,  430;  colors 
of,  452,  453;  bewildering  to  the 
walker,  458;  defacers  of  moun- 
tain-tops, 458,  459;  elusiveness  of 
summits,  11,  52,  53;  walking  on 
mountain-tops.  57,  68;  indicating 
state  of  atmosphere,  13,  311;  com- 
mon form  of,  339;  deceptive  dis- 
tances on.  14,  69;  ownership  of 
tops  of,  305. 

Mourning,  customs  of,  3,  194,  195; 
conventional,  12,  332. 

Mouse,  1, 425, 7, 179, 8, 102;  gbdling 
pines,  1,  368;  a  familiar,  368;  nests 
of,  4,  429,  5,  436,  480,  6,  126,  7, 
207,  231,  246,  262,  293. 8,  161,  223, 

9,  270,  271,  339;  frozen  into  Wal- 
den,  4,  484;  nest  of,  in  a  sunflower. 
ft,  355;  tracks  of,  6,  37,  126,  139. 
155-157,  7,  141,  180,  181,  9,  223, 
224.  10,  226.  11,  408. 13,  115;  sel- 
dom seen.  7,  201,  202;  droppings 
of.  232,  233;  holes  and  galleries  of. 
261;  girdling  fruit  trees,  8,  291; 
channels  made  by.  9,  180;  sudden 
disappearance  of.  482;  in  a  mill,  10* 
43;  gathering  and  eating  prinos 
berries.  189. 

Mouse,  deer  or  white-footed  iMu9 
leucopua  or  Arvicola  Eminonsii)^  7, 
187-189,  197-199.  202.  247.  8,  356, 

10,  214;  Audubon  and  Bachman 
on,  7,  239-241,  244;    nest  of.  246, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


412 


INDEX 


314, 10,  183.  184;  tracks  of.  8,  48, 
9,  224,  13,  76;  with  young  ones, 
8, 173;  the  hoard  of  a,  10, 178-180; 
underground  galleries  of,  13,  216, 
217. 

Mouse,  meadow,  7,  262,  293;  tracks 
of,  6,  29,  30;  a  mother  saving  her 
young,  7,  249;  nest  and  young  of, 
8,  467,  468. 

Mouse,  short-tailed  meadow,  10,  195, 
11, 123. 

Mouse,  unidentified,  4,  429,  434,  8, 
15, 10,  450. 

Mouse-ear  {Onaphaliutn  pUmtagini- 
folium),  5,  435,  436,  6,  229,  7,  390, 
434;  downy-swaddled,  6,  210.  See 
alao  Everlasting. 

Mowatt,  Mrs.  A.  C,  7,  43. 

Muck,  carting  out.  3,  207. 

Mud,  at  bottom  of  pond,  4,  208;  cut 
from  pond-hole,  6,  477,  ^1;  crys- 
tallized, 7,  237;  digging  in,  10,  81. 

Mudge,  Mr.,  of  Lynn,  a  ride  with,  10, 
245-247. 

MufUenbergia  glomerata,  14,  67. 

Mulgedium,  ft,  396. 

Mullein.  2,  104,  276.  292,  4,  165.  7, 
293,  510;  scent  of,  4,  116;  rain  on, 
5,80;  seeds  of,  13,  68. 

Mummies,  Peruvian,  4,  228  ;  natural, 
5,10. 

Munroe,  J.,  A  Co.,  publishers,  5,  459, 
521. 

Murray,  Mike,  9, 102. 

Muadcapa  Cooperi.  See  Flycatcher, 
olive-sided. 

Muse,  a  tenth,  3, 12. 

Museums,  catacombs  of  nature,  1, 
464,465. 

Mushrooms,  3,  44;  after  rain,  80; 
edible,  7,  480. 

Music,  of  the  spheres,  1,  53.  58. 2, 330; 
bravery  and,  1,  102-106;  soothing 
quality  of,  149;  sacredness  of,  154; 
forces  in,  160;  in  a  soldiers'  camp, 
160  and  note;  romance  in,  187; 
effect  of,  on  nerves,  192;  apostro- 
phe to,  219;  universal  influences 
of,  251;  unpremeditated.  271,  272; 
expression  of  character  by,  292; 
equanimity  of,  316-318;  history  of, 
325,326;  in  poetry,  357;  at  a  forest 
fire.  2,  35;  attention  to.  248;  out 
of  doors,  259;  in  a  menagerie.  356; 
harmonies  of  the  universe,  379, 380; 
all  music  harp  music,  3, 68;  melody 
and  noise,  125;  a  divine  hum,  288; 


related  to  love,  4,  27;  culture  of, 
114;  the  enchantment  of,  274,  275; 
uplifting  influence  of,  280;  of  wind 
in  tree-tops,  6,  492;  power  of,  6, 
193,  194;  heard  in  the  fields,  8, 
347;  extraordinary  power  of ,9, 217, 
218,  222,  233;  universal,  245;  a 
luxury,  10,  103;  in  cheap  sounds, 
227;  a  concert  of  instrumental,  296, 
297;  atmosphere  for,  11,  169;  of 
the  boughs,  12,  127-130;  natural 
and  artificial,  357. 

Musical  performer,  a,  2,  373.  374. 

Music-boxes,  1,  317  and  note. 

Musketaquid.  See  Concord  River. 

Muskrat,  pr  musquash,  1,  121,  2,  14, 

3,  377,  4,  421,  423,  6,  158.  7,  54. 
130.  131,  457,  8,  136,  168,  248,  257. 
258,  301. 10,  168, 11,  132, 12,  127. 
134;  gnawing  off  legs  in  trap,  1, 
481,  482.  6,  98,  9C;  musings  on,  2, 
111;  eating  clams,  149.5,  46.7,  68. 
13,  72;  a  native  American,  3,  71. 
72;  reveals  the  presence  of  clams, 
78;   independence  of,  443;   food  of, 

4,  178, 5,  511.  528. 7,  143.  336.  337. 
488.  8,  297.  11,  375;  nests  of,  4, 
201,5,66-68;  burrows,  or  galleries, 
of,  4,  221,  240,5,  66-68,6,  5.  13.7, 
253;  .night  activities  of,  4,  464,  5, 
499;  'scent  of,  82,  498;  swimming, 
155.  7,  85.  8,  300.  9,  386.  11,  109. 
329,  330;  post-mortem  examination 
of.  6,  325-327;  nest  of  fifteen.  507; 
diving.  532,  6,  288.  10,  490;  its 
method  of  opening  clamshells,  6, 
7,  8,  120;  eaten  by  Indians,  8; 
channel  leading  to  house  of,  14; 
sjmipathy  with,  98,  99;  its  pro- 
gress under  water,  163;  orientation 
of,  188;  carcasses  of,  7,  159,  296, 
297;  tracks  of.  in  snow.  163;  mak- 
ing a  canal.  174;  in  a  freshet,  190. 
191;  diving  for  clams.  214;  paths 
of.  under  ice.  232.  271;  drowned, 
286,  333;  preparing  for  winter,  517; 
resting  under  the  ice.  8,  25;  fore- 
sight of.  242;  inconspicuousness  of. 
261,  262;  description  of  a  dead, 
297,  298;  trail  of,  followed.  9,  282. 
283;  commonness  of.  10,  187;  as  a 
diver.  295;  caught  in  creels.  313 
note;  ripples  caused  by,  327;  cut- 
ting up  plants.  367.  376;  trails 
of.  11,  68,  69,  12,  205;  breatlling 
under  ice,  11,  420;  immortality  of, 
423;  Concord  River  famous  for,  431; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


413 


slaughter  of,  13,  53,  67;  stool  of, 
205;  instinct  and  experience  of,  395; 
using  open  spaces  in  ice,  13,  60,  61; 
as  a  winter  phenomenon,  64,  65; 
laying  out  the  course  of  a  river,  274, 
275. 

Muskrat-houses,  3,  52,  53,  73,  74.  4, 
378.  389.  413,  6,  440,  7,  151.  8,  14; 
compared  to  men's  boAthouses.  4, 
423;  in  a  flood,  5,  479, 7,  72;  com- 
position of.  5, 488,  510,  511,  6,  119, 
11,  293,  294;  after  a  flood,  5,  491 , 
492;  opened,  495,  496;  construction 
of,  7,  26,  8,  20;  like  haycocks.  7, 
156;  seen  above  ice,  202;  flatted 
down.  256;  an  unfiinished  house. 
456;  clear  space  about,  507;  and 
high  and  low  water.  8,  224;  annual 
phenomena.  IS,  388.  389;  inte- 
rior of.  examined,  13,  53-55. 

Muskrat-hunter,  the,  an  inspired  man, 
U,  423-125. 

Muskrat-shooting,  6,  240.  7,  130-132, 
154.  158.  8,  257. 13, 181. 

Mussel,  edible.  7,  436. 

Mussels.  2,  358. 

Mustard,  tower,  7,  293. 

Muster,  a  1%  of  bacon  at  a,  9, 141 ,  142; 
May  Training,  381,  382;  the  State 
muster  held  at  Ck>ncord,  12,  317, 
318.  SeeaUoC&mp. 

**My  Boots,"  verse,  1,  60. 

**My  friends,  why  should  we  live?" 
verse,  1,  447. 

*'My  ground  is  high."  verse.  1,  245. 

"My  life  hath  been  the  poem  I  would 
have  writ."  verse.  1,  275. 

Myrica  Island.  2,  124. 

MyriophyUum  aminguum,  6,  453.  11, 
92. 

Myrtle-bird.  See  Warbler,  yellow- 
rumped. 

Mysteries,  to  child  and  man.  3,  295. 

Mystery,  universal.  1,  236.  * 

Mythology.  Greek.  1,  391-394,  10, 
227;  superiority  of.  to  Hebrew,  1, 
391;  its  root  in  a  fertile  nature,  2, 
145;    nature  in,  152;    heraldry  in, 


Nabalus,  12,  308. 

Nagog  Pond.  2,  62.  466, 6,  18. 

Nahant,  visited,  10,  244,  245. 

Names,  meaningless.  2,  208-210; 
charm  of  French,  335, 3.36;  of  States, 
applied  to  buds  and  flowers,  406; 
of  men,  given  to  flowers,  439;  trav- 


ellers Imposed  on  by,  3,  20,  21;  a 
musical  catalogue  of,  104;  in 
Sweden,  117;  originating  in  blun- 
ders, 221;  of  plants,  roots  of,  246; 
value  of  suggestive,  for  flowers,  4, 
154;  the  Adam  that  names  things, 
ft,  347;  poetic,  7,  56;  a  help  to 
knowledge,  11,  137. 

Nantasket  Beach.  2,  346. 

Nantucket,  a  visit  to,  7,  91-97;  Nan- 
tucket verses,  97;   temperature  at, 

9,  221;  legendary  discovery  of, 
448. 

Napoleon  I.    See  Buonaparte. 

Nashua  River,   compared   with  the 
Ck)ncord,  9,  187;   fall  of,  compared    \ 
with  that  of  the  Concord,  253,  254. 

Natick,  plants  collected  in,  8,  118. 

Nations,  shortcomings  of,  3,  195. 

Natural  historian,  the  great,  9, 180. 

Natural  history,  written  by  streams, 
4,  187;   earliest  writers  on,  9,  232. 

Natural  law,  wholesomeness  of,  1, 
467. 

Natural  objects,  choice  of  words  in 
description  of,  13,  145,  146. 

Naturalist,  the,  methods  of,  1,  233; 
discoveries  of.  antedated  by  the 
farmer,  2,  105;  varying  his  pur- 
suits, 8,  314;   patience  needful  to, 

10,  369;  compared  with  the  poet, 
11, 153;  apologizing  to  the  reader, 
12,  377. 

Nature,  slow  procedure  of,  1,  92,  94; 
unconscious  service  to.  200;  con- 
formity to.  202;  trifling  of,  217; 
a  cure  for  disease,  224;  relation  of 
parts  to  the  whole,  231;  complete- 
ness of,  234;  her  friendliness  to 
man,  234;  consistency  of,  235;  su- 
perior to  man,  240;  unanimities 
of.  252;  lavishness  of,  270.  271; 
dials  of,  273,  274;  vibrations  of, 
274;  healthfulness  of.  306.  307; 
the  harmony  of.  307;  the  inaudible 
sounds  of.  321;  consolations  of. 
328;  originality  of,  332;  spacious- 
ness of.  341;  her  liberality  toward 
vice,  354;  charity  of,  360;  socia- 
bility of,  364,  .365;  kinship  of.  to 
art,  380;  subserviency  of.  to  man. 
437;  withholds  secrets.  441;  per- 
fecting herself  by  practice,  443; 
stronger  than  law.  455;  as  treated 
by  Quarles.  458, 459;  unity  of,  464; 
fitting  study  of,  471;  not  appre- 
ciated, 2, 151;  importance  of  inter- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


414 


INDEX 


course  with,  193;  slow  processes 
of.  257;  marriage  of  the  soul  with, 
413;  present  in  her  working,  416; 
delight  in  fruitfulness  of,  431 ;  pro- 
pagation secured  by,  3,  65;  a  plain 
writer,  233;  publishes  her  secrets. 
255;  not  found  in  books,  271;  in 
youth  and  age,  378;  odors  of.  4,  27; 
demands  virtue,  80;  her  love  of 
variety,  145;  reveals  itself  to  the 
vigorous  155;  her  demand  to  be 
viewed  humanly,  163;  reveals  her- 
self to  the  lover  of  life,  174;  her 
enmity  toward  the  debauchee,  105; 
intimacy  with,  compels  to  solitude, 
258.  259;  revolutions  of,  350; 
learned  by  perception,  351;  com- 
parison of,  to  humanity,  445,  446; 
duplex  character  of,  459;  innocent 
purposes  of,  461;  roominess  of, 
478;  the  observation  of,  5,  45;  as 
a  language,  135;  amount  of  fer- 
tility in,  139;  interpreted  only  by 
life,  323;  furnishing  man's  food, 
330,  331;  doubleness  in,  343;  a 
kind  of  gall.  349;  a  Bacchanal,  356; 
unused  abundance  in,  368;  health 
and,  395;  as  interpreter  of  life,  472; 
nutriment  offered  by,  478;  accept- 
ance of  gifts  of,  487;  her  closed 
door,  499;  effect  of  intercourse 
with,  506;  preserving  relation  to, 
517;  message  of,  compared  to 
books,  6,  40;  touch  of,  transmutes 
to  beauty,  66,  67;  correspondence 
of,  to  almanac,  145;  disappoint- 
ments in  the  study  of,  293,  294; 
inspiration  in.  294.  295;  serenity 
of.  329;  purity  of,  352, 353;  beauty 
of,  destroyed  by  evil,  358;  genial 
attraction  of,  486;  stung  by  God, 
7,  10;  calling  for  her  fan,  321; 
healing  her  wounds,  ^7,  408;  over- 
bounteous,  504;  secrets  of,  514; 
confidence  and  success  of,  8«  43; 
beauty  and  wonder  of,  43-45; 
economy  of,  110;  doing  her  plant- 
ing, 198;  primitive,  221;  eternity 
in,  224;  Sardanapalus-like,  315; 
her  grandest  voice,  349;  impar- 
tiality of.  9,  55.  56;  reflection  of 
man,  121;  devices  of,  127;  winter 
colors  of,  153;  epic  of,  168;  a 
musical  instrument,  191;  daily 
intercourse  with,  a  necessity,  200; 
foresight  of,  205;  effect  of  her  so- 
ciety, 205,  208-210,  215;   abhors  a 


straight  line,  281;  love  of,  very 
rare,  336,  337;  still  unexplored, 
490;  as  described  by  Ruskin,  lOf 
69;  the  lover  of,  and  the  lover  of 
art,  80;  as  a  banker,  92,  93;  repe- 
tition in,  97;  correspondence  of, 
to  man,  127;  Ruskin  and,  147;  an 
artist,  159;  healing  her  wounds, 
160;  in  November,  203,  204;  rela- 
tions of,  to  man.  252;  her  love  for 
gradation,  260;  indulgence  of,  301; 
glorified  by  man .  364;  the  mysteries 
of,  430.  431;  displaying  her  beauty, 
11,  77;  careless  observation  of, 
148;  sameness  of.  155;  confident 
of  future,  207;  likened  to  an  ath- 
lete, 260;  phenomena  of,  concealed, 
285.  286;  blush  of,  300;  gradation 
and  harmony  of,  319;  deliberateness 
of,  449;  man's  interest  in  phe- 
nomena of,  12,  65.  66;  feasts  pre- 
pared by.  96;  carrying  out  her 
plans,  160;  avoiding  unbroken 
lines,  352;  bill  of  fare  of,  398; 
amusements  offered  by,  400;  equi- 
librium of,  13,  38;  her  care  for  her 
creatures,  99;  an  unprejudiced 
view  of.  169;  regularity  of  her 
phenomena.  279;  extracting  beauty 
out  of  foulness,  400;  leisureliness 
of,  14,  311,  312. 

Naumbergia  thyrsiflora,  0,  411. 

Nauset  Lights,  9,  437. 

Naushon,  8,  392,  393. 

Nautical  terms,  2,  361. 

Nawshawtuct,  view  from,  1,  57, 2,  18, 
9,  81;  seen  over  a  lake  of  fog,  2, 
486. 

Nealy,  after  partridges,  9,  107, 108. 

Nebraska  Bill,  speeches  on,  ^  129. 

Necessaries,  1,  398,  486. 

N^ro,  a,  his  idea  of  heaven,  9,  215; 
picked  up  at  sea,  337. 

Neighbors,  appreciation  of.  9,  151; 
bad,  11, 338;  distances  between.  12, 
417. 

Neottia.  See  Rattlesnake-plantain. 

Nepeta  QUchoma,  5,  134. 

Neptune,  Governor  of  Penobscot 
tribe,  5,  427  and  note,  428. 

Nestor,  1,  61. 

Nettle,  12,  341. 

New  Bedford,  visits  to.  7,  89.  470, 
8,  384-397, 9,  315-330  ;  spring  cli- 
mate of,  330. 

New  England,  question  of  decrease  of 
woods  in,  3,  215;    love  of,  7,  104, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


415 


105;  early  writers  of,  108,  109; 
characteristic  tone  of  landscape  of, 

9,  24,  25;  pleasure  of  returning  to, 
139;  a  type  of  man  in,  144;  charac- 
teristic landscape  of,  338;  Christian- 
ity in,  11,  325-327;  humane  core 
to  life  in,  379. 

••  NewEnglan4  Farmer,"^,  444,6, 181. 

"New  England's  Prospect," '7,  109, 
132;    quoted,  109.  110.  132-137. 

New  Hampshire,  compared  with  Mas- 
sachusetts, 11,  55;  History  of,  by 
Belknap,  58,  59. 

New-Hollanders,  scale  of  civilization 
among,  2,  263. 

New  Testament,  2,  164, 3,  257. 

New  World,  compared  with  the  Old, 
3,  147,  148. 

New  Year's  resolutions.  3,  366. 

New  York,  public  opinion  and  moral- 
ity in.  2,  185;  deaths  from  heat  in, 
5,  379;  time  between  Philadelphia 
and,  7,  73;  visits  to,  75,  76, 9,  133, 

10,  442,  443;  chestnuts  appreciated 
in,  9,  147. 

"New  York  Herald,"  2,  185. 

"New  York  Reports,"  quoted,  7,  463. 
464;  cited,  10,456. 

•!New  York  Tribune,"  7,  328. 14,  331; 
a  story  in,  10, 16;  a  letter  to,  about 
a  fugitive  slave,  14,  293. 

"New  York;  Weekly  Tribune."  3,  208, 
250. 

Newark  (N.  J.)  marshes,  7,  76. 

Newburyport,  visit  to,  2,  121,  122. 

Newcomb,  walk  in  Providence  with, 
7,79. 

Newell,  John  C,  2,  20. 

News,  trivial,  3,  341. 

Newspapers,  not  to  be  read,  2,  45; 
the  ruling  power,  102;  corrupted 
by  the  slave  power,  178-182; 
deleterious  effect  of,  3,  208;  not 
worth  reading,  5,  87;  religious 
opinion  and,  10,  289,  290;  license  of, 
290;  dropsy  of,  11,  86;  their  ac- 
count of  the  laying  of  the  cable, 
87,  88;  their  attitude  toward  John 
Brown.  12,  406,  407,  424,  435.  439. 
13,  18.  19. 

Newton,  Mr.,  a  ride  with.  8,  314. 

Newton,  Mrs.,  of  Worcester,  8,  378. 

Newton,  Sir  Isaac,  1,  254. 

Niepce,  Joseph  Nic^phore,  quoted,  2, 
165. 

Night,  decreased  vigor  at,  2,  2.38; 
wind  heard  at,  239;   still  and  mod- 


erate, 239;  stars  take  the  place  of 
flowers  at.  239;  effect  of,  on  physical 
being,  258;  intimations  of  the, 
286,  287;  woodland  paths  by,  298; 
compared  with  day,  306,  327;  little 
explored,  3,  264;  spirituality  of 
man  during,  340;  blueness  of,  4, 
469;  philosophy  of,  472,  473;  the 
darkest,  11,  239. 

Nighthawk.  2,  235.  387,  7,  452,  8, 
384,  9,  380;  height  of  flight  of, 
2,  259;  manner  of  flight  of,  270,  6, 
328,  329;  notes  of,  4,  160,  14,  33, 
34;  booming  of,  4,  160.  14,  33,  34; 
ungainliness  of,  5,  214,  215;  sitting 
on  its  eggs,  230,  231;  young  of,  268; 
wings  of,  7,  383;  greater  swallows, 
8,360;  onMonadnock,10,460,461, 
14,  11,  33,  34;  crepuscular  habits 
of,  10,  476;  alighting  on  the  ground, 
13,  320;  favorite  localities  of,  367; 
suggestive  of  nearness  of  the  sky, 
406,  407. 

Nightingale,  bird  of  civilization,  4* 
263. 

Night-jar,  7,  126.  127. 

Nightshade     {Solanwn     DiUcamara) , 

2,  411;    autumn  coloring  of,  3,  64, 

11,  186;   odor  of,  4,  89;   berries  of, 

12,  307,  316,  354,  355;  as  a  symbol, 
341. 

Night-warbler.  2,  276,  5,  281,  282,  6, 
312,  313.  9,  355,  365,  10,  430,  432, 
11.  74,  13,  283,  301, 14,  67. 

Nineveh,  6,  9,  11. 

Nitella,  circulation  in  the,  2,  121. 

Nix's  Mate,  story  of,  2,  342. 

Nobscot  Hill,  5,  180;  an  interesting 
view  of,  7,  42. 

Noise,  and  melody,  3,  125;  children's 
love  of,  4,  85,  86. 

Nonesuch  Pond,  3,  96. 

Non-producers.  12,  329, 330.  342, 343. 

"Noon,"  verse,  1,  87. 

N.orse    ancestry,    T.'s    hypothetical, 

3,  304,  305. 

Norse  legends,  3,  314-316. 

North  America,  discovery  of,  10,  49. 

"North  American  Review,"  3,  26,  4» 

427.  6,  39. 
North  River.  See  Assabet  River. 
Northern  lights.  See  Aurora  borealis. 
Norway,  History  of,  by  Torfaeus,  2, 

169. 
Norwegians,  inveterate  mariners,  4, 

354. 
Notch,  the,  1,  203. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


416 


INDEX 


Notch,  the  Franconia,  1,  91. 

Novelty,  lack  of  charm  in,  2,  377. 

November,  a  hard  day  in,  3, 110,  111; 
views  of,  4,  42;  colors  character- 
istic of,  5,  462;  difficulty  of  sub- 
sistence in.  7,  276;  November  Eat- 
heart.  10,  203;  evening  in.  11,  273, 
274;  character  of.  297;  the  silvery 
lights  of,  307,  308.  331.  336;  a 
month  of  thought.  312;  middle  of, 
a  turning-point  of  autumn.  445. 

"Now  we  are  partners  in  such  legal 
trade,"  verse,  1,  242. 

Nudity,  4,  92.  93. 

Nuphar.  See  Lily,  yellow. 

Nuphar  advena.  See  Lily,  great  yellow. 

Nut  Meadow  Brook.  2,  82.  5,  13.  14; 
profile  of  bottom  of,  14,  15;  in 
March,  6,  153,  154. 

Nuthatch.  6, 138. 8, 14. 11, 291;  notes 
of,  8,  255,  9,  297, 11,  455. 14,  272; 
advice  from  a.  11,  298;  companion 
to  a  chickadee,  391;  feeding,  14, 
273. 

Nuthatch,  red-bellied,  9,  44,  45. 

Nuthatch,  white-bellied.  6, 122, 9, 1 59. 
266;  call-notes  of,  5,  51.  6,  121. 
122. 9, 159;  song  of.  9,  297, 12, 13- 
15.  81.  163. 

Nutmegs,  a  bushel  of.  13,  87.  88. 

Nuts,  trouble  of  eating,  9,  182.  183; 
wedged  into  trees  by  birds,  12,  20; 
an  effect  of  eating  too  many,  312; 
eaten  and  planted  by  animals.  14, 
7. 

Nuttall.  Thomas,  quoted.  6,  3.  97,  7, 
288,  290.  324  and  note,  325  note, 
346,  350,  367  and  note,  379,  382, 
391,  398,  410,  415.  416,  420, 8,  307, 
308.  388,  9,  110,  11,  50,  85.  397, 
398, 13,  298,  419.  422;  his  "North 
American  ^ylva."  6,  265. 

Nutting,  5,  486.  487. 

Nutting,  his  location  near  Walden,  1, 
420,  429. 

Nutting,  John,  as  a  weather  prophet. 
9  230. 

Nutting.  Sam.  "Old  Fox,"  5,  16.  9, 
483.484. 

Oak.  a  post  of.  decayed.  2, 318;  water- 
logged. 7,  487;  a  large  stump  of, 
504,  505;  luminosity  of  rotten, 
11,  195.  196;  Dr.  Ripley  and.  13, 
19;    durability  of.  359. 

Oak.  black,  shoots  of.  5,  164;  young 
leaves  of.  167.  168.  6,  268.  280, 


7,  405;  leaves  of.  6,  331,  7,  51; 
leaves  of.  in  winter.  108, 114,9, 194, 

10,  214;  measurements  of.  7,  272; 
tassels  of,  383;   autumn  foliage  of, 

11,  211,  278,  279;  roots  of  young, 
14,  129. 

Oak.  chinquapin,  5,  166;  leaves  of, 

6,  331;  leaves  of.  in  winter,  7, 114, 
115.  ' 

Oak.  English,  7,  63;  a  specimen  of, 
9,  414. 

Oak.  pin.  9,  137. 

Oak.  red.  7,  139;  scent  of  wood  of. 
3,  356.  7,  113;  fallen  leaves  of,  3, 
411;  turned  into  elms  by  ice,  4, 
442;  young  leaves  of,  5,  167.  13, 
337;  leaves  of,  5,  228;  on  Wachu- 
sett  Mountain.  7,  64;  leaves  of,  in 
winter.  114.  115.  9,  193.  194;  a 
stick  of.  8,  147;  on  Fall  Mountain, 
9,  75;  reflection  of  a.  10, 156, 157; 
autunm  foliage  of,  11,  211.  216. 
217;  acorns  of.  257,  288.  14, 112; 
roots  of  yo«ng.  128,  129.  139. 

Oak,  scarlet.  7,  45.9,  181;  acorns  of, 

7,  51. 11,  347.  410. 12,  157;  leaves 
of.  7,  51.  506.  10,  84.  85.  11,  314, 
338.  339;  autumn  foliage  of,  7,  59. 
11, 21 1 ,  235. 236. 244. 245. 260. 266 . 
267,  276-278;  leaves  of,  in  winter. 
7,  114.  115.  9,  194;  tassels  of. 
7,383;  measurements  of.  10, 10.11; 
garden  of,  11,  266,  267;  the  forest- 
flower,  276-278 ;  roots  of,  341; 
bark  of,  434;  leaves  of.  sunk  in  ice, 
13,  132. 

Oak,  shrub  or  bear  or  black  scrub.  2, 
18, 19.  85, 4,  204, 8,  363;  leaves  of. 
in  winter.  2,  99.  7,  101,  114,  10, 
214;  excrescences  on,  2,  406;  en- 
durance of.  3,  411;  leaves  of.  4, 
264.  6,  331.  332,  9,  185,  186.  199; 
acorns  of.  5,  419. 7,  18.  50, 12,  361, 
362,  384.  14,  113;  form  taken  by 
snow  on,  7,  148;  praise  of,  9,  146- 
147,  184,  185,  191,  192;  as  a  coat- 
of-arms.  207;  autumn  color  of.  11, 
237;  fertility  of,  12,  351;  a  huge. 
13,  304;  seedling.  14,  75;  roots  of 
young,  129. 

Oak.  swamp  white,  ft,  201.  202.  10, 
116;  a  fallen.  2, 225. 226;  alive  after 
overturning,  3,  54;  seen  at  a  dis. 
tance,  5,  452;  leaves  of,  6,  331,  7, 
527. 9, 168;  leaves  of.  in  winter.  7, 
114,  115,  9,  194;  tree  of  the  king, 
bird.  11,  81;   acorns  of.  14,  180. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


417 


Oak,  white.  8,  269;  the  wood  of,  2, 
64;  dried  leaves  of.  142;  acorns 
of,  3,  56-59, 7,  35,  50. 10,  103,  104, 
14,  103,  106,  107,  112,  115.  123, 
124,  132,  143.  148,  154,  258,  263- 
265;  bark  of,  3,  109;  refined  out- 
line of  leaf  of,  223;  turned  into 
elms  by  ice,  4,  442;  leaves  left  on. 
in  winter,  448;  circumference  of  a, 
5,  52;  leaves  of.  176.  177,6,  331, 7, 
48;    leaves  of,  in  winter,  107,  114. 

9,  194.  201.  10,  214;  young  leaves 
of.  6,  269.  280;  snow-laden.  7,  121. 
122;  insect-eaten  leaf  of.  495.  496; 
autunm  foliage  of.  10,  90.  11,  211, 
235.  236;  transplanting  a,  13,  66; 
bloom  on  leaves  of.  381;  a  white 
oak  year.  14,  115;  roots  of  young, 
129;  killed  down  by  frost,  147; 
tawny-white  boles  of.  209.  246;  a 
large  one  measured.  215;  sketch  of 
a.  242;  inner  garment  of,  246;  the 
lion  among  trees,  250. 

Oak-apples.  3,  174.  13,  361.  See 
also  Galls. 

Oak-balls,  7,  61,  115,  139,  14,  163. 
See  cUao  Galls. 

Oakes.  botanist.  8,  366.  11,  23  note, 
37  note.  40;  quoted,  19  note,  59. 

Oaks,  leaves  of,  fallen,  2,  103,  8,  96. 
97,  180;  remnants  of  the  primitive 
wood.  2, 461 ;  young,  with  leaves,  in 
winter,3, 261,  11, 385;  appearance 
of,  in  snow,  3,  301;  trunks  of.  420; 
an  oak  compared  to  an  athlete,  439; 
buds  of,  4,  43,  5,  138;  Evelyn  on 
shade  of,  4,  84;   pasture  oaks,  448, 

10,  113. 14,  191;  gray  branches  of. 
5, 94;  throwing  off  their  coats.  502; 
young  leaves  of,  6,  280, 9,  391, 13, 
336;  leaves  of  different  species.  6, 
331;   in  autumnal  dress.  7,  59.  60. 

11,  211.  235.  236.  247,  248.  263. 13, 
385;  colors  of  foliage  in  winter.  7. 
107. 108.9, 170, 171;  condition  and 
colors  of  leaves  of  different  species 
in  winter.  7,  114,  115,  9, 153,  193, 
194, 10,  214;  seen  at  a  distance  in 
winter,  7, 129;  in  "  New  England's 
Prospect."  133;  leaf-stalks  of,  re- 
duced to  fibres,  139-141,  12,  125, 
126;  a  fallen  and  crumbling  oak.  7, 
462;  missed  like  old  inhabitants. 
8,  38;  succeeding  pines,  315,  335; 
at  Perth  Amboy.  9,  137-139:  ex- 
crescence of.  used  for  a  beetle,  294; 
in  the  gray,  380;    growing  under 


pines,  10,  40,  41;  stumps  of.  257, 
12, 1 31 ;  rings  of  growth  of.  10, 275; 
autumnal  tints  of  sprouts  com- 
pared with  the  grown  trees.  11, 302; 
beauty  of  withered  leaves  of.  337. 
338;  leaves  of.  on  a  damp  day  in 
winter,  372,  373;  rustle  of  withered 
leaves  of,  on  the  trees,  384.  385; 
warmth  in  withered  leaves  of.  412; 
a  revolving  leaf  of,  12,  125.  126; 
red  r^ments  of.  385;  bearing  of. 
14,  115;  killed  down  by  frost.  147. 
See  also  Forest  trees  and  Wood-lots. 

Oats,  a  cradled  field  of.  3,  67. 

Oats,  wild.  11,  105. 

Objects,  eternal  relations  of,  1,  359. 

Observation,  objective,  6,  236-238; 
powers  of,  11,  296. 

Observer,  inferior  to  lover  as  student 
of  nature.  4,  174. 

Occasion,  1,  377. 

Ocean,  frozen,  off  Cape  Cod.  8, 186. 

October,  likened  to  Anacreon  or 
iEschylus.  1,  463;  the  sunset 
month.  6,  501.  502. 

Odors.  4,  27;  air  a  compound  of,  2« 
464;  in  autumn,  501;  significance 
of.  3,  373;  of  meadow  and  wood.  4, 
89,  139;  forerunners  of  summer, 
5,  164,  165;  exciting,  10,  296;  of 
the  land,  in  spring,  12,  176,  177. 
See  also  Fragrance. 

(Estrus,  a  new  version  of  the,  4,  72. 

Office-holders,  as  citizens,  8,  82. 

Ohio  River,  2,  230-232. 

Oil,  on  water,  8,  343, 9,  444.  445. 

Olaf  the  Saint.  King.  3,  191.  192. 

Olata,  the  yacht,  7,  443. 

Old  Man  of  the  Mountain,  the,  1, 91. 

"Old  Marlborough  Road,  The,"  verse, 
2,54. 

Old  World,  compared  with  the  New,  2, 
147,  148. 

Oldenlandia,  9,  404. 

Oldtown  (Me.),  visits  to,  6,  427-431. 
456.457.9,486,487. 

Omar,  2, 189.  190. 

"On  fields  o'er  which  the  reaper's 
hand  has  passed,"  verse.  1,  463. 

"On  the  Sun  coming  out  in  the  After- 
noon," verse,  1,  243. 

Onion,  stem  of,  used  as  bellows,  4, 
303. 

"Only  the  actions  of  the  just,"  verse* 
4,32. 

Opinion,  public  and  private.  1,  428. 

Optimism,  practice  of,  8,  245. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


418 


INDEX 


Orator,  most  eloquent  when  most 
silent.  1,  67. 

OrchidaceoB,  seeds  of,  12,  326. 

Orchis,  dwarf  {Platanthera  flava),  4, 
128,6,369. 

Orchis,  great  purple  fringed  (P.  fim' 
briata),  4,  103,  104.  6,  244.  6,  337, 
338. 

Orchis,  purple  fringed,  4,  117,  122, 
128. 

Orchis,  ragged  (P.  lacera),  4,  229. 

Orchis,  round-leaved  (P.  orbiculcUa), 
4,302. 

Orchis,  small  purple  fringed  (P.  pay- 
codes),  4,  268,  271.  273.  285.  6,  337. 
345,6,  401. 

Orchis,  white  fringed.  6,  345, 6,  408, 
11,83. 

Orient,  luxurious  idleness  of  the,  1, 
343. 

Originality,  tariff  on.  11,  343. 

Orinoco  River,  8,  11. 

Oriole.  Baltimore,  or  golden  robin,  4, 
35.  7,  376;  notes  of.  4,  35.  6,  136. 
7,  388.  8,  336,  10,  412,  13,  296;  a 
herald  of  hot  weather.  5,  133;  nest 
of.  7,  218.  240.  8,  119.  120, 13,  38; 
young  of,  7,  430.  9,  461. 

Ornithology.  1,  125. 

Orrock,  Hannah,  11,  381. 

Osbom.  Sherard,  4,  320. 

Osier,  red.  See  Cornel,  river. 

Osiers.  8,  208,  244;  Evelyn  on.  4,  86; 
brightening  of.  7,  212. 13,  170.  171; 
brilliance  of.  in  winter.  7,  255;  at- 
tractiveness of.  8,  49;  like  flames. 
82. 

Osmunda,  ft,  478;  wool  of,  4,  33.  See 
also  Ferns. 

Osmunda  regalis,  10,  495. 

Ossian.  landscapes  of.  8,  51. 

Ossoli,  Marquis  of,  2,  43. 

Ostriches,  eggs  of,  2,  131. 

Ostrya.  See  Hop-hornbeam. 

Otter,  8,  191.12,  139;  tracks  of.  3, 
338,  4,  474.  6,  40.  7,  169.  170,  174, 
479f  8,  183-185,  200.  9,  162.  163. 
13,  126;  dog  killed  by.  5,  353;  re- 
tired life  of.  6,  86;  sliding  down  a 
bank.  7,  174, 9,  162;  jelly-like  sub- 
stance left  by.  8,  200;  skins  of. 
sold  by  the  Pilgrims.  9,  163,  164; 
roaming  habits  of,  247. 

Outdoor  life,  its  effect  on  the  character. 
3, 104;  a  ballast  to  thought,  4,  409, 
410;  degrees  of,  12,  324. 

Ova,  on  rocks  in  river.  12,  260,  251. 


Oven-bird,  or  golden-crowned  thrush. 

1. 145. 6,  368,  369, 7,  355, 9,  90. 10, 

426;   song  of,  2,  9.  6,  251. 10.  411. 

412;    nest  of,  2,  35.  36,  ft,  310,  7, 

414;  running  from  nest,  ft,  229, 10, 

501.   See  also  Night-warbler. 
Ovid,  quoted,  2,  144.  145. 
Owl.  Acadian  {Strix  Acadtca),lU  392. 
Owl,  barred,  a  captive.  11,  373. 
Owl.  cat.  3,  122;   hooting  of.  10,  227; 

with  nest  and  young,  438;   nest  of, 

499. 
Owl,  hawk.  6, 14. 
Owl,  hooting,  hooting  of.  3,  122.  123. 

4,  5.  130.  191,  5,  85.  6,  52,  9,  172. 

182.  191.  11,  378,  390;    hoot  of,  a 

sign  of  rain,  3,  131;  rarely  seen,  0, 

52,  53, 9,  172. 
Owl.  long-eared.  13,  421.  422;    with 

nest  and  young.  9,  457,  458;  notes 

of,  458. 
Owl,  red.  5ee  Owl,  screech. 
Owl,  screech.  7,  12. 9,  458;  lament  of, 

1,  378,  379;  notes  of.  6,  439, 7,  457. 

13,  325,  374;  on  its  nest.  7,  364- 
367.  371.  372,  375.  390;  spied  at  by 
a  thrasher.  387;  a  captive.  521-525; 
a  pair  with  young,  8,  405,  406;  red, 

14,  294;  fitted  to  withstand  winter, 
294.295;  gray,  314. 

Owl,  short-eared,  6,  14. 

Owls,  7,  380,  8,  96,  14,  93;  fowls 
eaten  by.  6,  60;  feathers  of,  10, 
248;  fitted  to  withstand  the  winter, 

14,  295. 

Owls,  unidentified.  6,  13. 14;  notes  of. 
7,12. 

Ownership,  public  and  private,  in 
natural  objects,  14,  305. 

Ox-Bow.  in  Concord  River,  12,  268, 
269. 

Oxen,  with  loads  of  hay.  2,  53;  ma- 
jestic sleep  of.  258;  brass-tipped 
horns  of.  270;  working  for  them- 
selves, 310;  action  and  reaction  be- 
tween the  farmer  and  his.  453; 
chased  by  an  ox.  3,  94;  a  tired 
team.  158;  a  wounded  farmer  and 
his,  276;  horns  of.  305,  306;  their 
relation  to  man,  306.  307. 

Oysters.  2,  42;  William  Wood  on.  7, 
137;  at  Perth  Amboy.  N.  J..  9,  142. 

"Packed    in    my    mind    lie    all    the 

clothes,"  verse,  1,  291. 
Page,  a  White  Mountain  collier.  11, 

15,  16. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


419 


Painted-cup,  5,  127,  128  158,  220. 

Painter,  the,  how  he  secures  distinct- 
ness, 1,  233. 

Palate,  inspires  the  intellect,  4,  219. 

Palladius,  8,  329. 

Pahn  (tree),  1,  232. 

Paludina  deciaa,  8,  214,  12,  261. 
262. 

Panax  quinqnefolium,  fruit  of,  9,  71. 

Panics,  financial,  10,  92. 

Pansy,  1,  178. 

Pantaloons,  corduroy,  9*  359. 

Paper,  invention  of.  2^  407. 

Paradise,  pictures  of,  5,  255. 

Parents,  responsibility  of,  4,  416. 

Paris,  and  Ck>ncord,  8,  204. 

Parker,  the  ex-Shaker,  9,  201,  202; 
deserted  by  his  employer.  203, 204. 

Parker,  Rev.  Theodore,  talk  with,  9, 
237. 

Parks,  public,  the  need  of.  13,  387. 

Parks,  Mr.,  of  Lincoln,  6,  193. 

Parks,  Stephen,  6,  95. 

Parrot,  frightened,  9,  375. 

Parrot,  J.  J.  F.  W.,  his  "Journey  to 
Ararat  "  quoted,  3,  27. 

Parsees,  3,  195. 

Parsnips,  3,  362,  4,  194;  seed  of,  8, 
468. 

Parthenon.  1,  170. 

Partridge.  2,  85.  313. 3,  13.  4,  158.  6, 
280,  8,  40,  41.  47,  166.  171,  172, 
190, 9,  492;  tracks  and  marks  of. 
in  snow.  2,  140,  6,  87.  88.  7,  141. 
142,  149,  180-184,  8,  132,  137,  13, 
90;  drumming  of,  2. 250.6, 144,145. 
7,  208.  354,  12,  34. 13,  252;  wild- 
ness  of.  3,  148;  flight  of,  426, 4,  5. 
387,6,490,7,98.9,288;  going  off 
like  a  report,  6,  37;  the  prey  of  a 
fox,  242;  with  young.  244,  8,  377. 
13,  375;  budding.  6,  10,  49,  87. 
139,7,  188,  13,  102;  wintergreen 
in  crop  of.  6,  144;  droppings  of, 
151,  7,  188;  eating  prinos  berries. 
6,  156;  the  young  of,  376, 12,  207; 
notes  of.  7,  30,  8,  47,  12,  208;  on 
Nantucket.  7, 94;  mistaken  for  oak 
limb.  157;  food  of.  188;  Minott  on 
habits  of,  211,  212;  dusting-places 
of,  356.  357.  8,  421;  nest  and  eggs 
of.  7,  363.  371.  390, 12,  185;  flight 
like  a  cannon-ball.  8,  47;  eating 
sumach  berries,  102,  16iB;  mis- 
taken for  the  top  of  a  fence-post, 
177;  apple  tree  buds  in  crop  of, 
214;    Humphrey    Buttrick's  way 


of  catching,  355;  snares  for,  10» 
211;  hanging  dead  in  snare,  211, 
212;  run  over  by  train.  365,  366; 
striking  a  tree  in  flight.  11 ,  376;  fly- 
ing through  trees,  12, 156;  tracks  of. 
in  ice,  13,  47;  brood  of  young,  353; 
notes  of  the  young,  364;  young, 
flying.  383. 

Partridge,  a  South  American,  2,  241. 

Partridge-berry.  See  Mitchella  repens. 

Party,  an  evening,  3,  115,  116. 

Passion,  war  against.  1.  55. 

Past,  present  and,  1,  190;  and  future, 
2,  229, 13,  17,  18. 

Pastures,  pleasant,  4,  132. 

Patagonia,  icebergs  in,  2,  247. 

Patchogue  (Jjong  Island),  drunken 
scene  at,  2,  49-51;  aground  at, 
78.  79. 

Patent  OflBce  Reports,  quoted,  5»  406, 

10,  4.38. 
Patroclus,  1,  366. 
Paugus,  1,  338. 

Pauper,  a  simple-minded,  3, 198, 199. 

Payt-gum-kiss.  9,  500. 

Peabody,  Rev.  W.  B.  O.,  his  Report 
on  the  Birds  of  Massachusetts 
quoted,  6,  34,  7,  136.  208,  9,  110, 

11,  167,  13,  420-422. 

Peach  blossoms,  6,  150,   151;   effect 

of  cold  on,  9,  372. 
Peach  trees,  a  method  of  setting  out, 

1,286;  an  orchard.  3,  371;  history 

of.  4,  86;   short  life  of,  10,  63. 
Peaches,  the  principal  crop  of  Lin- 
coln, 4,  86. 
"Peal  of  the  Bells.  The,"  verse.  1, 

73. 
Pear,  josh,  7,  434  and  note. 
Pear  trees,  broken  by  snow-drifts.  6, 

182. 
Pearl,  the  production  of  disease,  3« 

37, 10,  7. 
Pears,  compared  with  apples,  14»  113, 

114. 
Peaslee,  Joseph,  5,  111. 
Peaslee  Houses  of  Refuge,  5*  111. 
Peat,  as  fuel.  2«  426;  drying  of,  9« 

17. 
Peawai,  note  of,  4,  73,  190,  192,  6, 

389. 
Peddler,  meeting  with,  on  Cape  CJod. 

9,  422. 
Pedicularis.  See  Lousewort. 
Peele,  George.  1,  465. 
Peeling  (N.  H.),  1,  91. 
Peepers.  See  Hyla,  peeping. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


420 


INDEX 


Peetweiet,  6,  124,  7,  429.  437,  8,  323, 

11,  167.  168.  IS,  249;  interested  in 
dog,  4,  165;  flight  of,  5,  389;  with 
nest  and  eggs,  7,  422;  with  half- 
grown  young,  8,  401;  nest  of,  9, 
410, 411;  arrival  of,  12, 174;  notes 
of.  280;  a  reminder  of  the  seashore, 
13,  284.    See  also  Sandpiper. 

Peirce,  William,  6,  490. 

Pelham's  Pond.  3,  77,  93.  204. 

Peltandra  Virginica,  4,  170.  173,  235; 
fruit  of,  12,  323. 

Pencils,  making  and  peddling,  5,  512. 

Pennant.  Thomas.  6,  34,  11,  50.  14, 
231. 

Pennyroyal.  2,  12,  104,  10,  152;  in 
the  pocket,  5,  24;  gathering,  369; 
ice-inclosed.  8,  62;   tea,  9,  89. 

Pennyweight,  John,  ft,  428. 

Penobscot  River,  ice  in,  at  Bangor, 
6,4. 

"Penobscot  Man,  The,"  5,  425  note. 

Pe-pe.  See  Flycatcher,  olive-sided. 

Perambulating  the  bounds,  2,  498. 
499,  604,  505, 3,  3-5. 

Perception,  power  of,  1,   247.  248. 

Perceptions,  dulled  by  custom,  10, 
307. 

Perch,  white.  8,  397. 

Perch,  yellow,  1,  476,  12,  280;  in  a 
man's  throat, 3, 124, 8, 365;  schools 
of  smaU,  4,  407.  408,  425;  of  Wal- 
den,  485;  beauty  of.  9,  199;  de- 
vouring spawn,  10,  379;  growth 
of,  496;  turned  bright  green.  11, 
345,  346. 

Perkins,  Colonel,  of  Boston,  2,  364. 

Perkins,  Dr..  of  Newburyport,  2, 
121,  122. 

Perla,  6,  250. 8, 185.  219. 9, 292,  300, 

12,  22. 
Persians,  1,  165. 
Persimmon,  10,  135,  136. 

Persius  Flaccus,  Aulus.  essay  on.  8, 66. 

Personal  identity,  4,  290. 

Persoon,  Christian  Hendrik,  quoted, 

13,  428,  429.  14,  55,  75  and  note. 
Perth  Amboy  (N.  J.),  visit  to, 9, 133- 

139,  142,  143;   gullies  a  feature  in 

landscape  of,  142;  oyster-gathering 

in,  142,  143. 
Pestle  and  mortar.  1,  454. 
Peter.   See  Hutchinson,  Peter. 
Peterboro  (N.  H.),  4,  345,  346. 
Peterboro  Hills,  seen  from  Concord. 

3, 112, 113. 7,  204.  205;  walk  over. 

4,  343-346. 


Peters,  Samuel  A.,  his  History  of 
Connecticut,  9,  75. 

Peterson,  of  Truro,  7,  439. 

Petrels,  between  Provincetown  and 
Boston,  9, 454, 455;  the  two  species 
of.  13,  420,  421.  See  alao  Mother- 
Carey's-chicken. 

Pewee,  notes  of,  3,  410;  nest  of.  7, 
428.   See  also  Phoebe. 

Pewee,  small,  ft,  125, 8,  377;  song  of, 
4,  32;    nest  and  eggs  of.  7,  412. 

Pewee,  wood,  12,  260. 14,  8;  song  of, 
6,  292,  459.  11,  101.  112;  sketch 
of,  6,  459;  nest  and  eggs  of,  7,  430. 
10,  609,  510,  11,  101,  102;  fly- 
catching,  112. 

PfeifiFer,  Madame  Ida.  quoted.  3, 195, 
200,205. 

Phafiton,  2,  144,  145. 

Phallus  impudictia,  9,  115-117. 

Pheasants,  imported,  7,  91. 

Philadelphia,  a  visit  to,  7,  73-75. 

Phillips,  Wendell,  5,  365;  as  an  ora- 
tor, 7,  211. 

Philliscus,  4,  374. 

Philosopher,  the  aloofness  of,  2,  83 ; 
the  simple  life  of,  5,  410-412;  vary- 
ing his  pursuits,  8,  314. 

Philosophers,  folly  of,  10,  344,  345. 

Philosophy,  and  poetry,  3,  232;  and 
facts.  8,  165;  a  subject  for  winter, 
9,  173;  pretensions  of.  178,  179; 
great  and  small  in,  496; .  of  fisher- 
men, 11,  238. 

Phoebe,  or  pewee.  9,  99;  at  the  Wal- 
den  house.  1,  484;  tail  of,  3,  378; 
song  of,  380, 398, 458  and  note.  459, 
8,  257, 12,  105;  nest  and  egg  of.  ft, 
117;  the  note  of  the  first,  8,  252; 
building  a  nest,  13,  278,  279. 

Phosphorescence,  9, 490  and  note.  10, 
5, 11, 195, 198. 201, 202;  on  a  beach, 
8,378. 

PhyUodoce  taxifolia,  11,  42. 

Physical,  the,  compared  with  the  intdi- 
lectual.  2,  414. 

Piano,  3, 125.  222;  a  distant,  4,  274, 
275. 

Pickerel,  I,  476,  2,  452,  4,  193,  194. 
450,  6,  392,  8,  36,  170,  194,  10, 
379,  12,  127;  habits  of,  2,  15,  16; 
in  a  spring,  97;  after  swallowing  a 
small  fish,  3,  54;  of  Walden,  color- 
ing of,  4,  476;  descriptions  of, 
484,  485.  10,  359,  360.  373,  412, 
413,  443,  444.  453,  464,  11,  413. 
414;  swallowing  a  minnow,  ft,  307; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


421 


tenacious  of  life,  447;  found  in 
curious  places,  7,  29;  specimens 
weighed.  246;  swallowing  another 
pickerel,  466,  467. 11,  75;  reviving 
frozen,  8,  84,  85;  voracity  of,  91, 
103;  catches  of,  112,  113,  129; 
oil  from  a  dead ,  275;  young,  9, 469 ; 
spawn  of.  10,  363.  429;  attacked 
by  trout,  399;  beauty  of,  11,  383; 
a  large  catch  of,  12,  104;  a  large, 
110,  111;   the  motionless,  280. 

Pickerel-fishers,  9,  167.  11,  413,  13, 
50. 

Pickerel-fishing,  in  winter,  0,  199. 

Pickerel-weed.  See  Pontederia. 

Pickering,  Charles,  quoted,  5,  392, 
410,  411. 

Pictures,  1,  78;  perspicuity  of,  474; 
of  Lexington  and  Concord,  9,  502; 
in  Nature,  10,  158.  159. 

Picturesque,  the,  6,  55-59. 

Pierce,  of  Concord,  8,  141. 

Pierce's  Perpetual  Calendar,  0,  138. 

Pigeon,  wild  or  passenger.  1 ,  130,  378, 
4, 68,  340, 7, 391 ,  10, 49, 11, 158, 14, 
73,  209;  in  forest  fire,  2,  24:  mi- 
grating, 331;  scarcity  of,  4,  44; 
notes  of,  ft,  415,  7,  35,  334,  335; 
reflections  from  neck  of,  6,  18; 
baiting  of,  402,  445;  food  of,  7,  36; 
in  "New  England's  Prospect"  135; 
shape  of,  9,  84;  flight  of,  10,  54, 
12,  184;  swallowing  acorns  whole, 
324;  pigeon-holes  and,  328;  seeds 
eaten  by.  13,  103,  104. 

Pigeon-bower,  a,  6,  77. 

Pigeon-place,  2,  499,  500. 

Pigeons,  Varro  on,  6,  92.  See  aleo 
Doves,  domestic. 

Pignut.   See  Hickory. 

Pignuts,  ft,  471,  4S2;  structure  of, 
4,  451,  452;  tested  by  squirrels, 
10,  137. 

Pigs,  fed  on  clams,  7,  439;  in  hot 
weather,  8,  429;  finding  and  catch- 
ing a  lost  pig,  451-456;  the  pig 
lost  again  and  recovered,  9,  26-28; 
directions  for  catching  a  pig.  260; 
a  wild  pig  from  the  West,  11,  339, 
340.  See  cdeo  Hogs. 

Pigweed,  7,  178,  183,  438,  445. 

Pilgrim  House,  Provinoetown,  9, 
452  453. 

Pilgrims,  the,  2,  353.  357, 365, 3, 319, 
9,  163. 

Pillsbury,  Parker,  11,  54;  a  ride 
with,  10,  245. 


Pilpay,  1,  470. 

Pimpernel,  scarlet,  7,  434. 

Pin,  displacement  of  a  wooden,  6, 
143. 

Pine,  fat  roots  of,  1,  76;  and  Indian, 
258;  a  pine  fallen  into  the  water, 
332;  the  grass  of  trees,  2,  10,  250; 
pollen  of,  40,  41, 10,  504.  13,  358, 
360,  364-366;  in  an  ocean  of  mist, 
2,119;  richness  of ,  3,  35;  almonds 
of,  146;  fed  by,  146;  sunlight  on 
needles  of,  148;  the  faU  of  a,  162- 
164;  a  large  fallen,  169;  derivation 
of  the  word,  229;  nucleus  of  night. 
4, 39;  tops  inclined  to  the  west,  140; 
effect  of  cultivation  on,  ft,  477; 
seeds  of,  6,  51;  pines  on  a  hilltop, 
seen  over  a  belt  of  mist,  7,  37,  38; 
pines  raised  on  Nantucket,  93,  94; 
snow-laden,  123,  8,  61;  seen  at  a 
distance  in  winter,  7,  129;  fallen 
needles  of,  489,  490,  10,  101,  12, 
301;  stipule  of,  8,  189  note;  plan- 
tation of,  on  Cape  Cod,  9,  436;  fall 
of  leaves  of,  10,  95,  96;  species 
desirable  for  planting,  185;  shining 
needles  of,  305,  11,  249;  setting 
out,  12,  152,  154.  155;  bearing  of, 
14,  115;  battle  of  the  pines,  149- 
151. 

Pine,  Georgia  pitch,  2,  198. 

Pine,  Norway.  2,  167.  See  also 
Pinue  reainoaa. 

Pine,  Norway  (European),  planted 
on  Nantucket,  7,  93,  94. 

Pine;  pitch  {Pinua  rigida),  2,  41,  365, 
411,  3,  102,  141.  ft,  197,  13,  335; 
snow-laden,  1, 183, 184,3, 139, 177, 
7,  118-120,  147,  149.  11,  388-390; 
symbolism  of,  1,  363;  girdled  by 
mice,  368;  changes  in  spring,  400; 
pollen  of,  2,  31,  4,  100;  seed  of,  2, 
32;  mode  of  growth.  89, 90;  north- 
erly limits  of,  199;  bark  of,  233; 
knots  in,  462;  fidelity  to  their  own 
ground,  3,  79;  cones  of,  101,  102, 
5,  7,  57,  58,  7,  194,  195,  208,  209, 
227,  228;  plumes  of  a  fallen,  3, 
121;  woods,  snow-covered,  140; 
value  of,  in  winter,  260;  a  cheerful 
tree,  462,  13,  203,  204;  buds  of, 
4,475,12.25;  opening  of  cone  of,  4, 
494,  495,  7,  143,  144,  8,  23,  24,  33; 
flowers  of,  ft,  191,  9,  399,  13,  366; 
with  new  shoots,  ft,  224;  mark  of 
thunderbolt  on,  6, 28;  color  of,  88; 
on  Nantucket,  7,  93;    needles  of. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


422 


INDEX 


243,  499,  8,  179;  cones  and  squir- 
rels, 127-129,  141,  142,  12,  107, 
108;  cones  closed  by  moisture.  8, 
294;  succeeded  by  oaks,  315,  335; 
stipule  of,  9,  141;  gathering  cones 
of,  10,  28,  29;  form  of,  57;  an  old 
stump  of,  14,  219,  220. 

Pine,  white,  3,  89,  199,  3,  93,  141, 
5,  353, 13, 30;  seed  of,  2, 32, 9, 105, 
368,  12,  153;  last  year's  cones  of, 
2,  33;  scent  of  dead  leaves  of, 
331;  in  Hubbard's  Grove.  3,  31; 
second   growth   of,   40;     architec- 

.  tural  arrangement  of  boughs,  131, 
132;  woods,  snow-covered,  140, 
141;  humanness  of,  144,  145;  a 
valuable,  185;  colors  in  a  stump  of, 
277;  shoots  of,  bent  east,  4,  136; 
wood  of,  freshly  split,  5,  48;  in 
flower,  233;  a  grove  of,  after  rain, 
376;  timber,  433;  Mason's  grove 
of,  530;  shoots  of,  6,  280, 13,  335; 
snow-laden,  7,  118-120,  147,  11, 
388;  an  old  stump  of,  7,  129;  form 
and  markings  of  cones  of,  144,  233, 
234;  drops  of  pitch  from,  237;  like 
an  open  cone,  319;  aft«r  drought, 
342;  at  a  distance,  345;  autumn 
change  of,  9,  99,  11,  198;  growth 
of,  9,  373,  390;  rings  of  growth  in, 
472.  10,  170;  a  beautiful  grove  of, 
32.  33;  cones  of,  and  squirrels,  33; 
a  characteristic  grove  of,  38;  growth 
of  hardwood  trees  under,  40,  41; 
form  of,  compared  with  that  of 
the  pitch  pine,  57;  carpet  of  leaves 
of,  106;  bearing  fruit  in  its  ninth 
year,  307,  308;  regular  beauty  of, 
479, 480;  pollen  of,  502;  as  a  bound- 
ary to  view,  11,  413;  cloud-like 
strata  of  foliage,  450;  a  dead  tree 
stripped  by  woodpeckers,  12,  27; 
white  pines  in  a  wind,  63, 64;  loosely 
planted,  119,  120;  shoots  of,  188; 
an  abundant  crop  of  cones  on,  333, 
334;  needles  of,  serrated,  352;  re- 
semblance of,  to  hemlock,  13,  10; 
growth  of  a  shoot,  359,  376,  385; 
flowers  of,  366;  forms  of  groves  of, 
14,  125. 

Pine,  yellow,  2,  198,  377. 

Pine-sap,  or  hypopitys,  5,  343,  10, 
30,  11,  100,  118,  209,  12,  308,  14, 
93. 

Pine  woods,  a  substantial  and  mem- 
orable fact,  3,  140,  141;  pleasing 
aspect  of,  142;   sky-line  of,  9,  150, 


151.  See  clUo  Forest  trees  and 
Wood-lots. 

Pink  (color),  13,  167. 

Pink,  wild,  5,  212;  a  fine  flower,  6, 
317,  318. 

Pinue  resinoea,  9,  394.  See  dUo  Pine, 
Norway. 

Pinus  rigida.  See  Pine,  pitch. 

Pinweed  (Lechea),  6,  408,  7,  512, 
8,  11, 9,  8, 13,  44, 14,  175;  radical 
leaves  of,  6,  157;  in  snow,  9,  163, 
165;  as  a  border,  291, 12,  363. 

Pinxter-flower.   See  Azalea,  pink. 

Piper,  Josh,  9,  239. 

Pipes  (Equieetum),  13,  276;  Oriental 
appearance  of,  5, 144;  a  sea  of,  12, 
205;  liked  by  cattle,  287.  See  aUo 
Equisetum. 

Pipsissewa.  See  Wintergreen. 

Pirates,  burying  money,  7,  69,  70. 

Pitcher-plant,  or  sidesaddle-flower,  2, 
90,  3,  33,  34,  4,  93.  5,  396;  water 
in,  2,  493,  494;  as  insect-traps,  3, 
24;  flowers  of,  4,  75,  5,  227,  245, 
261,6,341. 

Pith,  of  plants,  8,  215  and  note, 
216. 

Pittacus.  quoted,  1,  168,  169. 

Plains,  1,  186. 

Plane,  Oriental,  2,  377;  leaf  of,  9, 
496. 

Plantain,  sea,  2,  349. 

Plants,  under  the  ice,  2,  108;  circu- 
lation in,  121,  122;  of  America, 
148;  compared  with  man,  201-205; 
medicinal,  214,  219;  seminal  pro- 
pagation of,  244;  kinship  of,  with 
animals,  416;  the  two  states  of,  3, 
63;  quaquaversal  affinity  of  plants, 
286;  artificial  and  natural  systems 
of  studying,  307;  known  by  fruits, 
4,  306.  307;  list  of.  bearing  leaves 
Jan.  28th,  477;  likened  to  human 
beings,  5,  508,  609;  each  plant  true 
to  its  season,  6,  156;  transplanting 
of  fluviatile,  196;  order  of  leafing 
of,  232,  233,  235;  list  of,  leafing 
between  May  5th  and  11th,  255; 
greenness  of,  afifected  by  weather.  7, 
280;  rare,  at  Natick,  8,  118;  Hig- 
ginson's  collection  of,  382;  rare, 
about  New  Bedford,  387;  delight 
in  discovery  of  rare,  9,  6,  56;  ob- 
tained on  excursion  to  Brattleboro, 
78-80;  first  interest  in,  166-158; 
oldest  pressed,  in  Concord,  263; 
fellow-feeling  for,  406;   at   Moose- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


423 


head  Lake,  491, 494;  at  Telos  Lake, 
Me.,  495;  observed  in  Maine  woods, 
497, 498,  500;  migration  of,  10,  49; 
colors  of,  98;  effect  of  light  on,  101 ; 
discovery  of,  anticipated,  274;  suf- 
fering for  lack  of  snow  covering  in 
winter.  357-359;  on  Mt.  Monad- 
nock,  452-480,  14,  25-32;  in  the 
far  north,  10,  458;  growing  in 
circles,  495;  in  the  White  Moun- 
tains, 11,  16-19,  30,  31,  36;  on  Mt. 
Lafayette,  46,  47;  prevailing  on 
Mt.  Washington,  59-62;  fluctua- 
tion in  abundance  of,  108;  seen  at 
Marblehead,  172;  European,  intro- 
duced into  America,  261-263;  an- 
ticipated finding  of,  268;  shrubby 
evergreen,  list  of,  327;  mystery  in 
life  of,  12,  23;  spontaneous  genera- 
tion of,  14,  333. 

Plants,  water.  See  Water-plants. 

Plalanthera.  See  Orchis. 

Plato,  1,  150.  171;  his  idea  of  music, 
105;  Degerando  on,  440;  wisdom 
of,  6,  209. 

Play,  holiness  of,  1,  302. 

Pleasant  Cove,  2,  348. 

Pliny  the  Elder,  3,  118,  13,  104; 
quoted,  3,  273,  13,  16,  17,  14, 
310. 

Plotinus,  1,  139. 

Plover.  2,  62,  7,  77.  8,  355. 

Plover,  piping,  4,  68.  7,  438,  8,  355, 
9, 426, 427;  feigning  lameness,  443. 

Plover,  upland,  7, 439, 13, 354, 14, 73; 
note  of,  7,  46,  440, 9,  426,  427. 

Plow,  destructive  of  grubs,  5,  516. 

Plowing,  noble  work,  9,  310,  311; 
often  too  deep,  11,  304. 

Plum,  beach,  9,  405,  14,  92;  leafing 
of,  6,  282;  in  Maine  woods.  9,  499; 
fruit  of.  10,  37. 

Plum,  Canada,  7,  134;  blossom  of, 
9,373. 

Plums,  in  "  New  England's  Prospect," 
7,  134. 

Plutarch,  3,  239;  quoted,  1, 100, 105. 

Plymouth,  visits  to.  2,  356.  357,  363- 
366,  9,  414-420;  lecturing  in,  3, 
318,  319;  lecturing  and  surveying 
in,  7,  63,  64. 

Plymouth  (N.  H.),  1,  91. 

Plymouth  Rock,  visit  to.  2,  353.  357. 

Plympton,  Mrs.,  garden  of,  at  Ply- 
mouth, 2,  365. 

PodostemonCeratophyUum.  See  River- 
weed.  • 


Poet,  the,  his  kinship  with  Nature,  1, 
74,  75;  nature  and,  149;  enigma- 
solving  faith  of,  234;  spontaneity 
of,  258;  frankness  of,  304;  inno- 
cence of,  456;  his  message  derived 
from  memory,  471;  and  his  moods, 
2,  403,  428;  a  fertile  flower,  414; 
necessary  aloofness  of,  3,  5;  writes 
the  history  of  his  body,  36;  his 
reUance  upon  instinct,  112;  crea- 
^tive  moment  of,  165;  generator 
of  poems,  191;  and  woodchopper, 
245;  science  the  second  love  of, 
311;  birth  of,  316;  ragged  wing  of, 
4,  103;  his  facts  like  winged  seeds, 
116;  compared  to  devoured  moth, 
259;  material  of,  5,  183,  184; 
nameless  among  men,  347;  affected 
by  natural  objects,  359;  deals  with 
his  privatest  experience,  6,  188; 
his  dwelling  a  paradise,  237;  a 
forest  bird,  257;  varying  his  pur- 
suits, 8,  314;  the  journal  of,  lO* 
115;  the  facts  of  his  life,  131;  com- 
pared to  a  bird,  321;  tone  and 
pitch  of  voice  of,  344;  earth  a 
flower-garden  to,  405;  compared 
with  the  naturalist,  11,  153;  his 
debt  to  nature,  457;  idealizing  the 
present,  13>  17,  18. 

Poetry,  the  writing  of,  1,  73;  the 
essence  of,  114;  thought  con- 
cerning. 114;  the  highest  form  of 
expression,  151;  the  best  never 
written,  153;  and  the  poet's  heart- 
strings, 275;  effeminate,  278;  test 
of,  281;  pes^mism  of.  283,  284; 
in  Harvard  Collie  Library,  288, 
289;  naturalness  of.  289;  Saxon, 
289,  290;  Scotch,  294;  language  of, 
323;  music  in,  357;  humorlessness 
of  great.  358;  impression  and  ex- 
pression in,  2,  341;  perception  ne- 
cessary, for  production  of,  442;  wo- 
man's, 3, 165;  and  philosophy,  232; 
the  appreciative  reader  of,  245: 
facts  translated  into,  311;  com- 
pared to  facts  of  science,  4,  392; 
precision  of,  compared  to  looseness 
of  prose,  6, 74;  words  and  sense  of, 
compared,  9,  58;  enjoyment  of,  97; 
in  Ricketson's  shanty,  323;  not  for 
youth  only,  10,  202;  the  first,  in 
Plymouth,  292;  lack  of  appreciation 
of  autumn  in  English,  11,  254;  ap- 
plicable tQ  John  Brown,  12,  446; 
compared  witlT  science*  14, 117, 118. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


424 


INDEX 


Poets,  tameness  of.  1,  272,  273;  a 
great  poet  will  write  for  his  peers, 
274,  275;  and  wild-flowers,  4,  104; 
their  thoughts  likened  to  shells.  5* 
609;  maturing  seasons  of,  6«  100; 
kinds  and  degrees  of.  11,  423.  424. 

Pogonia  oj^iogloaaoideM,  4,  126,  200, 
217,  5,  263.  288,  295,  299,  9,  472. 

Points  of  view,  10,  164.  165. 

Poi8on-d(^r^ood.  iSee  Sumach,  poison. 

Poisons,  8,  448,  449. 

Poitrine  Jaune  Oroaae,  10»  49. 

Poke,  or  poke-weed,  color  of,  2,  489, 
490;  seeds  of,  3,  289;  berries  of. 
4,  330, 9,  91.  92, 12,  351;  emblem 
of  life,  ft,  393.  394;  bark  of.  used 
for  twine,  9,  25. 

Pole  Brook,  7,  2«. 

Police,  a  new  scheme  for,  ft,  281. 

"Polina,"  the  open  polar  sea,  3,  386. 

Polls,  Joe,  Indian  guide,  9,  489,  490. 
492,497,500,501.10,55;  engaged. 
9»  486,  487  and  note;  carrying  the 
canoe,  491;  parentage  of.  498. 

Politeness,  definition  of.  1,  323. 

Politics,  and  nature,  1,  306;  unim- 
portance of,  2,  53;  vital  functions 
of,  3, 103. 

Pollen,  of  flowers,  yellow,  ft,  58. 

••Pollinometers,"  13,  360,  366. 

PoUywogs,  killed  by  drought,  6,  471; 
myriads  of,  9«  394;  season  of.  10, 
224;  slow  oC  growth,  383;  land- 
locked, 11,  345;  about  air-holes  in 
ice,  362;  developing  into  frogs,  13, 
411.  412. 

Poly,  grass.  3,  36. 

Polygala,  caducous.  4,  245. 

Polygala,  cross-leaved  (P.  eruciata), 
2,  427,  503,  4,  225. 

Polygala,  fringed.  4, 74,  ft,  164;  white, 
187. 

Polygala,  whorled,  9,  9. 

Polygala  aanguinea,  9«  59. 

Polygala  verticiUata,  8,  466. 

PolygoncUum  pvbeacens,  berries  of,  9, 
30. 

Polygonum,  jointed,  3,  57,  58. 

Polygonum  amphibium,  varieties,  4, 
322,  325. 360, 5,  390, 417. 10, 21, 22. 

Polygonum  articulatum,  2«  456,  4, 
364,  8,  358. 

Polygonum  aviculare,  12,  293. 

Polygonum  Careyi,  5,  353. 

Polygonum  dumetorum,  5,  403,  439; 
a  rampant  climber,  417. 

Polygonum  Hydropiper,  5,  495. 


Polygonum  hydropiperoidea,  6,  381, 
452, 7,  458. 

Polygonum  orientale,  ft,  377. 

Polygonum  Pennaylvanicum,  9*  63. 

Polygonum  tenue,  9«  17. 

Polygonums,  6,  381, 7.  41,  9,  86, 11, 
74, 12,  230. 

Polypody,  10,  153-156.  164. 

Pond-hly.  See  Water-lily. 

Ponds,  formation  of  ridges  on  shores 
of,  4,  488-490;  thundering  of,  in 
wmter,  6,  120, 121;  a  dry  pond,  7, 
514;  on  Cape  Cod.  9,  435;  rise  and 
fall  of,  11,  344;  the  freezing  of  a 
pond,  369. 

Pontederia.  or  pickerel-weed.  3t,  32, 
54.  ft,  162,  486,  489  6,  285.  397, 7, 
255,  11,  67,  68,  12,  248,  394.  13, 
405;  color  of,  4,  168.  237;  border 
of.  238;  dew  formation  on.  239; 
fields  of,  ft,  318;  decaying.  380, 381; 
food  for  muskrats,  496;  leaf,  under 
microscope,  6,  446;  seed-vessels 
of,  465;  efifect  of  frost  on,  7,  50; 
scent  of,  501;  used  by  musdcrats, 
507;   seeds  of.  12,  355,  374. 

Pools,  as  mirrors,  ft,  228. 

Poor  Richard,  2,  164, 13,  13. 

Poplar,  wood  used  in  making  powder, 
3,  80,  ft,  50.  See  alao  Aspen  and 
Populua, 

Poplar,  balsam.  2,  197. 

Poplar.  Lombardy.  2,  197. 

Populua  grandidentata,  3,  18,  481,  6, 
103;  sprouts  of,  4,  309;  fruit  of„ 
ft,  129;  leaves  of,  6,  209,  11,  258, 
12,  365.  368,  13,  336;  in  autumn, 
11,  249,  250;    aments  of,  12,  154. 

Popuhu  monilifera,  on  West  Rivo*, 
9,71. 

Populua  tremuloidea.  or  P.  tremuU^ 
formia,  4,  418,  419.  ft,  89,  105,  7- 
306.  307,  13,  333,  334.  See  aiao 
Aspen  and  Poplar. 

Porcupine,  14,  16. 

Porphyry,  flora  in  r^on  of,  12, 164. 

Porpoise  oil,  2,  69. 

Porson,  Richard,  quoted,  14,  311. 

Porter,  Commodore  David,  14, 262. 

Portland  (Me.),  1,  46-49. 

Potamogeton, 4, 170, 171 . 5,  301,  310, 
6,  345.  449, 10,  19,  20.  11,  75.  12, 
229.  230. 

Potamogeton  hybridua,  shadows  of,  4, 
151;   food  for  breams,  ft,  325. 

Potash,  2,  232;  made  from  seaweed, 
346.       • 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


425 


Potato,  wild,  2,  261. 4,  491. 

Potato  balls»2,  431.  433. 

Potato-fields,  2,  282.  292. 

Potato  vine,  reason  for  growth  to- 
ward the  light,  IS,  23.  24. 

Potatoes,  4,  232.  491. 

PoterUaia  Anaerina,  9,  429. 

Potentilla  recta,  13,  428,  429. 

PoterUilla  tridentata,  10,  457, 11,  18. 

Pot-holes,  forms  of.  O,  74. 

Potter.  Miss,  death  of,  14,  321. 

Potter.  Jake.  11,  190. 

Potter,  John,  2,  397. 

Potter.  Jonas.  2,  324,  8,  68,  69.  12, 
296. 

Potter,  Luke,  7,  26. 

Potter.  "Scheeter,"  8,  37. 

Pout,  homed,  1,  475,  476. 4, 185, 409. 
7,  309,  378;  the  prey  of  a  turtle.  2, 
14,  15;  old  and  young,  4,  213.  214, 

6,  373. 8, 412, 9,  299;  spawn  of,  10, 
429;  nests  of.  483.  484,  11,  344, 
345. 12,  163,  164;  a  diseased  pout, 
11,  87;  nest  and  young  of,  202;  a 
pout  protecting  her  ova,  13,  367, 
368. 

Poverty,  3,  295,  296;  advantages  of, 

7,  46;  delights  of,  503;  preference 
for.  9,  245,  246;  the  rule,  10,  6; 
giving  a  relish  to  life,  12,  297. 

Poverty-grass  {Hudaonia),  0,  427, 
443.444. 

Powder-mills,  explosion  of,  4,  453- 
455.  ft,  21 1 ,  212;  debris  of,  12, 248. 

Powwows,  10,  12. 

Practice,  making  perfect,  12,  39. 

Praise,  simplicity  of,  3,  256. 

Pratt,  Mr.,  of  Concord. 3, 70, 294, 296, 
ft,  246,  325,  8,  432;  honesty  of,  3, 
230;  bee-hunting  with,  4,  368-374; 
makes  a  good  shot,  8,  354;  tells  a 
swallow  story,  433;  his  barometer, 
9,  34;  simplicity  of,  233. 

Pratt,  Mrs.,  9,  4. 

Pratt,  Miss,  10,  494, 11,  170. 

Pratt.  Miss  Caroline,  11,  111. 

Pratt,  M.  (?) ,  on  the  shimmering  of  the 
air.  12,  143. 

Pratt,  Minott,  7,  8, 8,  461,9,  143, 13, 
428;  calling  on,  8,  468;  walk  with, 
9, 6;  to  Bateman's  Pond  with,  369- 
371;  to  river  and  Ponkawtasset 
with,  409;  at  house  of,  10,  285; 
up  Assabet  with,  12,  116;  on  T.'s 
theory  of  the  formation  of  a 
swamp  on  a  hillside.  118. 

Prayer,  a,  3,  351. 


Preacher,  the.  9,  167;  a  man  of  straw, 
11,  324-327. 

Preaching,  true  and  false.  3,  230. 

Prenanthes,  2,  396. 

Prescott.  of  Concord,  14,  343. 

Prescott's  History,  9,  75. 

Present,  the.  never  gets  its  due*  1« 
190;   a  digestive  process,  466. 

President,  become  the  Ex-President, 
8,  82.  83. 

Press,  the.   See  Newspapers. 

Price.  Sir  U.,  quoted,  6,  103. 

Price  Farm  road,  the,  2,  422. 

Prichard,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  8,  69, 173. 
175. 

Primrose.  See  Evening-primrose. 

Principles,  how  deduced,  1,  450. 

Prinos,  or  winterberry,  budded,  2« 
278. 

Prinos  berries.  4,  406.  437.  7,  52.  9, 
97,  10,  171,  11,  342, 12,  318. 

Prinos  glaber,  7,  480. 

Prinoa  Icevigatua,  5,  255,  256;  shoots 
of,  10,  24. 

Prinoa  verticiUatua,  4,  141;  berries 
of,  eaten  by  mice,  10,  189. 

Print,  and  lichens.  6,  132. 133. 

Printing,  art  of,  8,  203. 

Privacy,  need  of,  6,  415,  416. 

Proctor,  attempts  to  milk  the  cow« 
8,93. 

Prodigality,  wisdom  of,  1,  386. 

Property,  insecurity  of,  under  unjust 
government,  6,  356,  357. 

Prose,  looseness  of,  compared  to  pre- 
cision of  poetry,  6,  74. 

Proserpinaca,  10,  383. 

Proserpine,  4,  81.  82,  94,  193. 

Prosperity,  thoughts  induced  by,  1, 
320. 

Providence,  the  designs  of,  2,  214, 
215. 

Providence  (R.  I.),  lecturing  in,  7,  79. 

Provincetown,  visits  at,  7,  432,  9, 
452-454. 

Provincetown  Harbor.  7,  441. 

Prunella  2,  65.  446,  4,  173. 

PsychoIo^.S,  71. 

Pufifball,  star-fingered  {Lycoperdon 
ateUaium),  7,  224,  8,  295.  298,  422. 

Puffballs,  4,  426.  5,  408,  409,  6,  447- 
480.9,  111.  112, 14, 173;  the  archi- 
tecture of,  9,  102,  103;  waterproof 
qualities  of  the  dust  of,  248,  IO9 
148;  doctors'  use  of,  9, 275;  various 
states  of,  282;  opening  of,  10, 148; 
grubs  feeding  on.  148. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


426 


INDEX 


Puffer,  8,  170;   talks  with,  170-174. 

333, 10,  429;  and  the  mysteries  of 

Nature.  431. 
PtUsatiUa  palena,  8,  341. 
Pulse,  feeling  the,  10,  188. 
Purchas's  Pilgrims,  3,  353. 
Purgatory,  in  Sutton,  Mass.,  8,  379, 

380. 
Purity,  dream  of,  4,  363;     revelation 

of,  by  snow,  6,  43-45;    typified  in 

Nature,  352,  353. 
Purple,  in  the  air,  3,  14;    of  August, 

11,  131. 
Pursh,  Frederick.  8,  437, 11,  43. 
Pursuits,  choice  of,  5,  16,  17. 
Putnam,  F.  W.,  11,  348  note. 
Pycnanthemum    incanum,     or    wild 

basil.  5,  322,  324,  8,  436;  beauty 

of,  459.  460. 
Pycnanthemum  lanceolcUum,  4, 279. 
Pycnanthemum  muticum,  4,  247. 
Pyramids,  the  1, 170, 4, 84;  compared 

with  toadstools,  5,  274. 
Pyrola,  round-leaved,  11,  337. 
Pyrola  aecunda,  6,  12,  7,  233. 
Pyrula.  7,  480. 
Pyrus,  swamp  {Amelanchier) ,  leafing 

again  in  the  fall,  7,  511, 10,  171. 
Pyrua  arbutifolia.   See  Choke-berry. 
Pythagoras,  1,  150. 

Quadrupeds,  list  of  Ck>ncord,  7,  200, 
201;  of  Mt.  Monadnock,  14,  34.  35. 

Quahog.  8,  395, 9,  317. 

Quail,  6,  31,  7,  368,  8,  40.  172, 13,  5; 
whistle  of,  4,  194;  going  off  like  a 
report,  5,  37;  appearance  of,  in 
thaws, 6, 61;  food  of,  7,  212;  about 
a  house,  8,  112;  winter  mortality 
of,  228;  about  New  Bedford,  389; 
in  the  barn-yard  in  winter,  9,  242- 
244;  man  and  hawk  after,  13,  72; 
running  in  company,  77;  eggs  of, 
319. 

Quakers,  7,  91;  a  narrow-minded 
Quaker.  8,  392. 

Quarles.  Francis,  1,  458.  459. 

Quarrel,  basis  of,  5,  515. 

Quebec,?,  73,  337,  398;  fortifications 
of,  399,  400;  soldiers  at,  401;  the 
air  of,  422;  apparition  of,  to  the 
emigrant,  3,  41;  talk  with  a  young 
Englishman  in,  338,  339. 

Quincy  Market,  a  bird-cage  in,  3,  446. 

Quoil,  Hugh,  1,  414-418. 

Rabbit,  gray,  5,  507,  8,  34,  159;  tail 
of,  6,  143;  habits  of,  7, 169;  tracks 


of,  8,  75.  78.  80.  150;  a  living 
tomb  of  a.  10,  77.  78;,  nest  of,  13, 
319.   See  aUo  Hare,  gray. 

Rabbit,  white,  5,  507,  6,  86;  frozen, 
83;  tracks  of,  126,  7,  184,  8,  78- 
80;  habits  of.  7,  169. 13,  104.  See 
also  Hare. 

Rabbits,  3,  13,  11,  408,  13,  126; 
tracks  of,  1, 217.3,  317, 7, 141, 163. 
9,  163,  11,  375.  13,  73-75;  under 
the  house,  1,  425;  a  call  from  Jean 
Lapin,  433;  eating  apples,  2,  139; 
a  rabbit  goes  off  with  a  squeak  and 
a  bounce.  4,  23;  twigs  gnawed  by, 
6,  143,  7,  236;  their  forms  in  the 
snow,  182;  forms  of.  410:  gnawing 
oak  bark,  8,  166;  at  Perth  Amboy. 
N.  J.,  9,  139;  tragedy  of  a  rabbit 
told  by  tracks  in  snow,  13,  73-76. 

Rabelais,  Francois,  1,  408. 

Raccoon,  1,  421,  14,  83;  on  Nan- 
tucket, 7,  94,  95;  tracks  of,  154. 
1 55;  sold  by  Indians  to  settlers,  9, 
264. 

Ragwort.   See  Senecio. 

Rail  (bird),  11, 287, 12, 264;  nest  and 
eggs  of,  197,  201;  notes  of,  13,  405, 
406. 

Rail,  Carolina  (RaUue  Carolinut),  11, 
167,  192,  288. 

Rail,  Virginia  (Ralhis  Virginiantui), 
described,  5,  259;   eggs  of,  11,  171. 

Railroad,  the    Sam  H walking 

on,  2,  465;  wildness  of  its  accom- 
paniments, 3,  342;  willows  grow- 
ing along,  8,  181. 

Railroad  sleepers,  14,  257. 

Railroad  train,  a.  3,  274. 

Railroads,  2,  136,  137;  seeds  dis- 
tributed by,  446. 

Rain,  enjoyment  of,  1,  132;  walking 
in  the,  2,  451;  after  frost,  3,  15;  a 
sign  of,  131;  a  walk  in  the,  385, 
386;  a  summer  rain,  4,  230;  on 
mullein  leaves,  5,  80;  abroad  in 
the,  90;  a  winter  rain,  6,  141;  a 
summer,  394, 395;  sound  of.  7, 186; 
on  the  river,  8,  290.  291 ;  a  "  drisk," 
9,  437,  11,  242;  its  effect  on  the 
mind,  10,  262,  263;  the  first  in 
spring,  316;  good  for  thought,  427, 
428;  bred  by  frost,  12,  58.  59;  ob- 
served from  a  shelter,  206;  sound 
of,  on  the  leaves,  13,  429. 

Rainbow,  4,  278,  284, 12,  44,  45;  at 
sunset,  2,  383;  not  utilitarian,  4, 
128;    a  faint  vision  of  God's  face. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


427 


128;  "rainbow  in  the  morning," 
141;  different  aspects  of,  288;  rarity 
of,  in  winter,  7,  298;  over  Concord 
River,  13,  121,  122;  a  terrestrial, 
414. 

Raleigh,  Sir  Waker,  genius  of,  1,  314, 
318.  319, 465;  Maxims  of,  332,  333 ; 
quoted,  333,  334. 

Rana,  species  of.   See  Frog. 

Ranger.  Ricketson's  dog,  9,  320. 

Ranunculus,  at  the  bottx>m  of  the 
river.  5,  527,  6,  5,  6. 

Ranunculus,  white  water,  12,  216, 
13,  352,  353. 

Ranunculus,  yellow  water,  5,  452, 
453. 

Ranunculus  abortivua,  10,  443. 

Ranunculus  filiformia,  4,  221. 

Ranunculus  Purshii,  9,  408;  smell  of. 
5,  300;  leaves  of,  318;  buds  of,  6, 
279;  showiness  of,  7,  391,  392;- 
double  flower  of,  8,  425, 426. 

Ranunculus  repens,  10,  431,  439. 

Ranunculus  reptans,  5,  288. 

Raritan  River.  9,  142. 

Rasle,  P^e  S^bastien,  his  dictionary 
of  the  Abenaki  language,  10,  290. 

Raspberries,  the  most  innocent  fruit, 
2,  281;  abundance  of,  in  Maine.  9, 
500.  501;  scent  of,  14,  8;  best  lo- 
calities for.  309. 

Raspberry,  6,  217. 

Raspberry,  dwarf  (Rubus  triflorus), 
4,  170,  6,  309, 6,  297, 9,  476. 

Rat.  nests  of,  in  old  houses,  10,  364, 
365. 

Rat,  wharf,  1,  482. 

Rattle-pod,  10,  152.  See  also  Cro- 
talaria. 

Rattlesnake-plantain,  or  neottia,  3, 
476,  6,  243. 

Rattlesnake-plantain,  or  veined  ne- 
ottia {N.  pubescens  or  Goodyera 
pubescens),  4,  316;  fitness  of  the 
name,  2,  407;  leaves  of,  6,  347,  9, 
28. 

Rattlesnake-weed,  4,  131. 

Raven,  5,  65. 

Ravine,  formation  of  a,  7,  218,  219. 
12,  3.  4.  61,  62. 

Reading,  for  winter  evenings.  9,  173; 
the  reader  and  the  listener,  12, 
9-11. 

Reason,  in  argument.  3,  330.  331. 

Recess  in  an  entertainment.  1,  199. 

Red.  10,  282;  richness  of.  2,  489; 
precious  to  nature,  4,  218;   whole- 


someness  of,  242;  of  evening  com- 
pared to  morning,  264;  attractive- 
ness of,  266;  the  time  for,  in  na- 
ture, 7,  52. 

Red  Hill,  view  from,  11,  9. 

Redding  &  Co.,  4,  325. 

Red-eye.   See  Vireo,  red-eyed. 

Redness,  value  of,  .6,  209. 

Redpoll,  lesser  {FrinqiUa  linaria  or 
Linaria  minor),  6,  146, 7,  117, 120, 
122,  178,  13,  82;  first  identifica- 
tion of,  4,  412,  414,  455.  494,  5,  3; 
notes  of,  4,  412.  426,  427,  446.  7, 
86, 13, 105;  feeding  on  birch  seeds, 
4,  427,  446.  7,  86;  tracks  of,  in 
snow,  181, 13, 112;  thoughts  on,  8, 
42,  43;  compared  with  goldfinch, 
13, 104, 1 05;  feeding  on  larch  seeds. 
108,  109;  eating  alder  seeds.  112; 
feeding  in  the  snow,  156. 

RedpoU,  yellow.  6, 190. 191,  201,  213. 
214.  7,  320.   327,  329;    notes  of, 

6,  197,  213,  214.  7,  341,  8,  284, 
302. 

Redstart,  American,  5,  110, 118.  139. 

7,  397,  8,  339,  10,  507;  notes  of. 
7,  405,  408,  10,  419,  426. 

Red-top,  13,  401,  403,  404. 

Red-wing.   See  Blackbird,  red-wing. 

Reed-mace,  4,  186. 

Reeds,  a  field  of,  3,  76. 

Rees's  Cyclopaedia,  quoted,  4,  374, 
375,8,278,10,5,11,263. 

Reflections,  of  trees,  1,  139,  140,  7, 
21;  nature's  dualism  seen  in.  3, 
51  ;  companionship  in,  110;  like 
glow-worms.  110;  of  heat,  from 
pine-needles,  4,  99;  in  a  flooded 
meadow,  5,  463;  of  weeds  against 
sky,  517;  phenomenon  of  length- 
ening lines  in  winter,  6,  14; 
from  necks  of  pigeons,  18;  of  rain- 
bow from  ice.  119,  120;  on  water 
of  Baffin's  Bay.  140;  of  a  rail- 
road bridge.  7,  20.  21;  extraordi- 
narily distinct.  82.  83;  of  the  sun. 
499;  clarifying  water,  8,  434;  as 
an  aid  to  seeing,  9,  172,  173;  of 
shrubs  in  Walden,  10,  74,  76;  not 
copies  of  the  substances.  97;  seen 
only  by  a  reflecting  mind.  156,  157; 
Ruskin  on,  210;  most  perfect  in 
autumn,  11,  213,  214,  216,  217;  of 
distant  houses.  293;  from  ice  at 
sundown,  12,  31. 

Reform,  basis  of.  1,  247. 

Reformer,  the,  2,  404. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


428 


INDEX 


Reformers,  should  be  met  charitably, 
1,  478;  an  encounter  with  three,  5, 
263-266. 

Region,  the  word,  4,  87. 

Regret,  1,  95. 

Reid,  Capt.  Majme,  his  ".The  Young 
Voyageurs,"  6,  158. 

Religion,  common  type  of,  1,  165;  a 
reserve  of,  240;  unsociability  of, 
285;  infidelity  of.  309;  Hindoo 
and  Hebrew,  2,  3,  4;  essential  to 
greatness.  4,  262;  the  New-Eng- 
laiider's,  5,  223;  the  abuse  of,  9, 
424,  425;  and  man's  gregarious- 
ness,  lOf  351;  definition  of,  11, 
113;  as  propitiation  of  the  deity, 
338. 

Rembrandt,  1,  90. 

Reminiscence,  value  of.  5«  454. 

Rennie,  Rev.  James,  10«  182. 

Repentance,  3«  145;    wastefulness  of, 

1,  318;  undesirable,  2^  3. 
Repose,  a  phase  of  activity,  1,  293, 

294. 

Reproof,  in  nature,  5,  294. 

Reptiles,  Rev.  Horace  James's  col- 
lection of,  8, 380, 381;  notes  of,  10, 
404. 

Republican  Party,  weapons  of,  8, 404. 

Revive,  1,  76. 

Resource,  1,  54. 

Resoiu'ces  of  a  country,  the  best,  6« 
335,  336. 

Rest.  1,  92,  193.  194. 

"Return  of  Spring."  translation 
from  Anacreon,  1,  69. 

Revelation,  the  world's  attitude 
toward,  3,  119. 

Reverence,  mistaken  expression  of, 
11,  112. 

Revivals,  10,  314,  315. 

Revolution,  universality  of,  1,  474. 

Revolutions,  triviality  of,  1,  315. 

Revue  dea  Deux  Mondea,  reviews  in, 
4,  236. 

Reynolds,  Dr.,  tells  of  a  Ismx  killed 
in  .4.ndover,  9,  94, 14, 86;  on  phos- 
phorescence, 10,  5. 

Rhadamanthus,  1,  391. 

Rhaoium  lineatum,  6,  166. 

Rhexia  Virginica,  or  meadow-beauty, 

2,  504,  4,  229,  238,  282,  5,  392, 
408.  6,  472,  9,  29,  12,  98,  301; 
bright  beds  of,  8,  440;  seeds  of,  9, 
97. 

Rhine,  panorama  of  the,  2,  146. 
Rhinooeros-birds.  2,  132. 


Rhode  Island,  6,  67,  68. 

Rhododendron  {,R.  maximunC),  ft, 
161.  276;  its  introduction  into 
Ck>ncord.  221. 

Rhododendron  Lapponicum,  11,  43. 

Rhodora  {Rhodora  C^madenaia),  4, 71. 
281.  5,  163, 170,  175, 185,  311,  479. 
482,  6,  277,  281,  10,  288,  12,  191. 

Rhua  radicana.  10.  23. 12,  351,  352. 

Rhua  Toxicodendron,  6,  397.  432,  8, 
225;  dye  made  from.  9,  291;  au- 
tumnal color  of.  11, 129,  196;  bind- 
ing a  wall  together,  13,  286. 

Rhua  venenata.    See  Sumach,  poison. 

Ribea  Cynoabaii,  10,  452. 

Ribea  hirtellum,  5,  346. 

Ribea  pro^ratum,  10,  454. 

Rice,  as  a  diet.  3,  216;  boiling.  10» 
55. 

Rice,  a  former  resident  of  Lincoln,  his 
turkey-shooting,  9,  130,  131. 

Rice,  Israel,  3,  379,  380,  10,  324; 
cited  on  June  weather,  4,  77;  on 
Ck>ncord  winters,  8,  177. 

Rice,  Nat,  7,  113. 

Rice.  Reuben.  3,  229.  7,  248,  249. 
8,  377, 10,  322  note.  363.  12,  264. 
334,  14,  314 ;  a  talk  with  Sophia 
Thoreau  on  Mr.  Foster  and  the 
town  hall,  3,  225;  an  honest  man, 
230;  on  bee-hunting,  296-298,  8, 
27;  on  bees.  4,  171;  a  bee-hunt 
with,  368-374;  on  hunting  mud 
turtles,  6,  254;  talks  with,  7,  174. 
8,  25,  26,9,  20.  21.  289. 10,  287, 11, 
154, 12,  60,  164, 14,  313.  314;  tells 
of  the  death  of  his  father,  8,  24; 
successful  life  of,  26.  27;  tells  a 
turtle  story.  32,  33;  on  eels  and 
the  snapping  turtle,  328;  his  poetic 
life,  9, 289;  as  a  story-teller,  10, 63; 
tells  a  stuttering  story,  207;  tells 
animal  stories,  .378;  his  story  of 
the  absence  of  fishworms  at  Frye- 
burg,  Me.,  11,  136. 

Rice,  William,  6,  172. 

Richard  the  First,  3,  415. 

Richardson,  of  Concord,  1,  430. 

Richardson,  Captain,  attempts  to 
milk  the  cow,  8,  93. 

Richardson.  John,  10,  219;  at  the 
point  of  death,  0,  274;  surveying 
for  the  heirs  of,  10,  224.  225. 

Richardson,  Sir  John.  3,  372,  4,  82; 
quoted  on  the  lynx.  14,  231. 

Richis,  the,  2,  191. 

Rich-weed,  12,  341. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


429 


Ricketson,  Arthur,  7,  464,  465,  468. 

8,  394.  9,  318,  319;    his  Indian 

relics,  7,  471. 
Ricketson,  Daniel.  8,  467;   visits  to, 

7,  90,  91,  463-482,  8,  38&-397,  9, 
316-330;  his  visits  to  Concord,  7, 
456,  457,  9,  195,  10,  224,  12,  449 
note;  his  library,  7,  469;  ride  from 
New  Bedford  to  Plymouth  with, 
483;    on  the  song  sparrow's  song, 

8,  384;  his  shanty,  9,  322.  323;  his 
fear  of  lightning  and  death,  345, 
346;  a  letter  from,  11,  315;  his 
anecdote  of  John  Brown,  18,  449; 
a  letter  to,  14,  290  note. 

Ricketson,  Walton.  7,  464,  8,  385, 

386,  393,  394.  398. 
Ridges,  formed  of  frozen  sand,  4, 488- 

490. 
Rig  Veda.  8,  134,  135. 11,  424. 
Riordan,  Johnny,  the  little  Irish  boy, 

2,  117,  118,  3,  149,  150,  241-244, 
289. 

Riordan.  Julia,  2,  419. 

Riordan,  Patrick,  with  an  armful  of 

wood.  3,  308 ;  optimism  of,  410 ; 

buying  railroad  sleepers.  7,  497. 
Ripeness,  essence  of,  12,  24. 
Ripley,  Mrs.,  of  Concord,  4,  467,  8, 

341;  a  talk  with,  334. 
Ripley,  Miss.  5,  48. 
Ripley,  Rev.  Ezra,  D.  D.,  and  Sunday 

bathing,  9,  58;    and  his  pork,  10, 

166;  and  oak  wood,  13,  19. 
Ripple-marks,  12,  112,  145. 
Ripples,  peculiar,  11, 409;  play  of,  on 

a  pond,  12,  129-131. 
Rivals,  the  word,  4,  467,  468. 
Rivers,  1,  58;    changing  waters  of, 

295,  296;   ethereal  in  the  distance, 

3,  373;  shores  of,  male  and  female, 

4,  101;  the  two  in  Concord,  188, 
189;  active  and  passive  sides  of, 
238;  names  of,  5,  279;  a  mirror, 
409;  rise  and  fall  and  overflow  of 
ice,  7,  160;  size  of  western,  9,  57, 
68;  the  "thread  of  the  river,"  280 
and  note;  curious  phenomenon  in  a 
river,  298;  thoughts  suggested  by 
scenery  of  a  broad  river,  11,  4,  5; 
different  geological  r^ions  of  the 
two  rivers  of  Concord,  102;  unbut- 
toning their  icy  coats,  12,  32;  like  a 
hibernating  animal,  33 ;  heteroge- 
neous currents  of  a  river,  13, 430. 

River-weed  (Podoatemon  CeratophyU 
lum),  12,  252,  253. 


Road,  lines  on  the  old  Marlborough, 
2,  54;  an  old  untravelled,  322-326; 
the  ideal.  4, 26;  the  Carlisle,  5, 239, 
12,  345, 348,  349;  a  meandering,  ff, 
531;  old  garden  herbs  along  an  old, 
9,  5;  the  genuine  Cape  Cod,  427; 
the  traveller's  rights  on  the,  11,  55; 
the  sinking  of  a,  13,  252-254. 

Robbins,  Peter,  4,  232. 

Robin,  1,  440, 5,  89, 6,  260. 7,  335, 8, 
240,  241.  279, 9,  280, 10,  303;  sun- 
set song  of,  1,  252;  the  evening, 
400;  bathing,  2,  350;  its  song  as- 
sociated with  New  England  village 
life,  3,  376;  an  unfailing  songster, 
446;  song  of,  on  cloudy  days,  4, 
54;  inclined  to  sing  in  foul  weather, 
98;  call-notes  of,  5,  24,  7,  235,  8, 
227, 10,  319, 12,  20;  slow  to  begin 
singing,  5,  26;  ventriloquizing,  33, 
8,  241 ;  its  manner  of  hopping, 
6,  58;  universality  of,  93;  betray- 
ing its  nest,  149;  morning  spng  of, 
215,  8,  286;  singing  at  earliest 
dawn,  7,  354;  eggs  of,  386;  a  white, 
403;  nest  of,  blown  down,  429; 
roosting-places  of,  450;  carrjdng 
ofif  linen,  8,  104;  a  berry-eating 
bird,  10,  115;  on  Mt.  Monadnock, 
470;  killed  by  rain,  495;  an  anx- 
ious look,  12,  20;  eating  wild  cher- 
ries, 309;  agency  of,  in  planting 
berries,  14,  313;  eating  mountain- 
ash  berries,  342. 

Robin,  golden.  See  Oriole,  Baltimore. 

Rob-n  Hood,  4,  194. 

Robinson,  Solon,  7,  76. 

Robinson  Crusoe,  1,  220. 

Robin's-plantain.  See  Erigeron  hel- 
lidifoliua. 

Rockport.  11,  178,  179. 

Rocks,  bard  to  know,  1,  469;  strata 
of.  3,  45;  lifted  by  trees,  91;  hu- 
manized, 334;  water  gliding  over, 
391;  plants  growing  about  a  rock. 
4,  111;  gray  color  of,  134;  tales 
told  by,  5,  90;  communion  with, 
506;  attraction  of,  in  winter,  6, 
117;  in  rivers,  7,  268;  compared 
to  animals,  8,  431;  a  picture- 
frame  of.  10,  158,  159;  traces  of 
soil  on.  264;  on  Monadnock,  465, 
14,  40-45;     in   White  Mountains. 

11,  19;  boulders  in  fog,  21,  22; 
at  Marblehead.  172;  boulders  of 
Cape  Ann,  179;   in  Concord  River. 

12,  250.  251.  262,  263. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


430 


INDEX 


Rock-tripe.  3,  292;  boiled  and 
tasted,  6,  158.  See  also  Lichen, 
umbilicaria. 

Rockweed,  2,  347,  355. 

Rogers,  up  Assabet  with,  9,  467.  468; 
walk  with,  in  Worcester,  10,  440- 
442. 

Rogers,  Samuel,  his  "Recollections" 
quoted,  14,  311. 

Roman  history,  in  Cato's  "De  Re 
Rustica."  2,  444,  445. 

Romans,  the,  1,  165,  390;  their  in- 
debtedness to  agriculture,  2,  450; 
farming  implements  of.  6«  69;  and 
the  art  of  husbandry,  8,  229. 

Rome.  1,  171. 

Romulus  and  Remus,  2,  151. 

Roots,  vivacity  of,  14,  121. 

Rosa  niiida.  See  Rose,  wild  moss. 

Rosas,  Gen.  Juan  Manuel  de,  2,  241. 

Rose,  late,  river,  or  swamp  {Rosa 
Carolina),  5,  318,  331;    hips  of,  6, 

132; 

Rose,  meadow,  hips  of,  5,  464. 

Rose,  wild,  beauty  and  fragrance  of. 
4, 132;  beauty  of  buds  of ,  142,  174; 
and  the  water-lily.  148;  modest 
yet  queenly,  148;  bloomed  in  vain 
for  wild  man,  166;  a  beautiful 
clump  of,  173,  174;  the  queen  of 
our  flowers,  5,  256;  seen  in  the 
twilight.  284;  at  Highland  Light, 
7,438;  hipsof,  8,  71,72. 

Rose,  wild  moss,  fragrance  of,  6,  231 ; 
color  of,  6,  375;  hips  of,  7,  19. 

Rosemary,  marsh,  7,  438. 

Ross,  Alexander,  quoted,  1,  392. 

Rougette,  Abb^.  7,  71. 

Round  Hill.  4,  238. 

Rouville,  Hertel  de.  3,  282. 

Rowse.  Samuel  W..  7,  11,  12. 

Rubus,  clustered,  8,  446. 

RtUma  hisjndua,  9,  16. 10,  283. 

Rubiis  triflorua.  See  Raspberry, 
dwarf. 

Rudbeckia  hirla,  6,  383. 

Rue.   See  Meadow-rue. 

Ruins,  at  Lincoln,  2,  412. 

Rumex  obtuaifoliiLe,  6,  366. 

Rumor,  the  growth  of  a,  10, 215, 216. 

Rupert's  Land,  in  Concord, 9,  42,  43. 

Rush,  bayonet,  7,  57, 12,  73;  coloring 
of,  11,  251,  252. 

Rush,  rainbow.  3,  54, 55, 11, 251 .  252. 

Rushes,  8,  55,  72,  11,  137-139;  sea- 
son for.  3,  64;  a  mat  of,  broken 
apart  by  frost,  13,  186. 


Rusk,  the  flavor  of  a,  11,  89. 

Ruskin,  John,  his  "Modem  Painters," 
10,  69;  Nature  and.  147;  an  omis- 
sion in.  209;  on  reflections,  210. 

Russell,  John,  4.  467,  7,  64,  11,  18 
note;  a  walk  with,  6,  446-448;  up 
river  with,  448,  449,  8,  422,  423; 
a  botanical  talk  with,  6,  449.  450; 
a  letter  received  from.  8,  421;  a 
visit  to  Essex  Institute  with.  11, 
170;  a  walk  from  Salem  to  Marble- 
head  with,  171-173. 

Russell.  Thomas,  a  talk  with,  2,  364. 
365. 

Russell.  William  S.,  2,  365. 

Russet,  12,  75,  76. 

Rye,  4,  4, 418  7,  401;  nodding  heads 
of,  4,  211;   rapid  growth  of,  6,  303. 

Rye-fields,  2,  293,  5,  178. 

Sabbath,  the,  use  and  abuse  of,  3, 119, 
120;  observance  of,  5,  223;  winter 
likened  to,  11,  446;  the  river  keep- 
ing. 12,  247.  Sec  also  Sunday. 

Sabbath  bell.  the.  1,  54,  55. 

Sabbatia  chloroides,  7,  479. 

Sable.  4,  401. 

Saddle-back.  4,  16L 

Sadi,  1,  344,  4,  290. 

Sadness,  joyful,  2,  390. 

Sagard,  Gabriel,  his  History  quoted, 
7,  126,  143. 

Sagittaria.   See  Arrowhead. 

Sail,  the  motions  of  a,  1,  155. 

Sailing.  1,  155.  11,  182;  disposes  to 
contemplation.  5,  404;  by  moon- 
light, 503-505;  the  charm  of,  8, 
317;  the  pleasure  of.  11,  116,  120. 

Sailor,  the,  his  life  compared  to  the 
farmer's,  4,  225,  226. 

Saint-Hilaire,  ^tienne  Geoffroy,  6, 
178. 

St.  John's-wort,  or  hypericum,  5,  226, 
227,  8,  426.  427;  evergreen  leaves 
of.  3,  364;  two  lives  of  6, 152;  radi- 
cal shoots  of,  152,  7,  107;  radical 
leaves  of.  229;  fragrance  of,  9,  9. 
See  also  Hypericum  Sarothra. 

St.  Paul's  Rocks,  2,  240. 

Sais,  inscription  on  temple  at,  1,  139. 

Salamanders,  7,  262,  263,  8,  381,  10, 
166, 167, 11,  362.  363,  365, 12,  151, 
153,  154. 

Salamis.  1,  164. 

Salix,  meaning  of  name,  14,  826.  For 
species  see  Willow. 

Sallow.  <See  Willow. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


431 


SaUola  Kali,  7^  433.  12.  374. 

Salutations,  appropriate  to  national 
life,  4,  15. 

Salvages,  the,  9,  445. 

Sam,  the  Jailer.  See  Staples,  Samuel. 

SamarsD,  like  poet's  thoughts,  4,  116. 

Samphire,  color  of,  11,  175. 

Sanborn,  Frank  B.,8,  46,9, 198;  talk 
with.  331,  332;  on  Mt.  Wachusett. 
10,  108. 

Sanborn  ton  Square,  1,  91. 

Sancho  Panza,  10,  344,  345. 

Sancoty  Head  Lighthouse.  7,  96. 

Sand,  at  Cochituate,  3,  97;  bursting 
through  snow,  343;  battle  of,  with 
water,  844;  frozen  and  formed  in 
ridges,  4,  488-490;  used  in  a  wire- 
rolling  mill,  7,  102;  the  Manches- 
ter musical,  11,  173,  174 ;  ripple- 
marked,  12,  112;  "  arrowheadifer- 
ous,"  175;  cylinders  nf,  13,  267, 
268;  temperature  of,  at  bottom  of 
Walden,  406. 

Sand-bank,  evidences  of  a  revolution 
seen  in  a,  3,  176. 

Sand-bars,  fresh  water  in,  2,  45. 

Sand  foliage,  3,  164.  165.  348,  349. 6, 
109.  148. 

Sandpiper,  1, 457.   See  also  Peetweet. 

Sandpiper,  pectoral,  11, 181. 

Sandpiper,  solitary.  See  Tattler,  soli- 
tary. 

Sandstone,  seven  feet  of,  3,  85. 

Sandwich  Mountains.  11,  9. 

Saukhya  Karika,  2,  192. 

Sap,  anal(^y  with  disease,  7,  239. 

Saradwata,  Brahman,  2,  193. 

Sarothra.  See  Hypericum  Sarothra. 

Sarsaparilla  (.Aralia  nvdicaulia) ,  6, 
430, 10, 37;  leaves  of.  in  September. 
7, 17. 18;  berries  of,  8,  465;  wither- 
ing when  green,  12,  306,  307.  See 
also  Aralia. 

Sasemore,  Betty,  7,  474. 

Sassafras.  2, 309. 9, 374;  fragrance  of, 
3,  292;  as  an  article  of  commerce, 
373;  flowers  of,  5,  151.  179;  leaves 
of.  437.  438;  berries  of,  7,  53,  8, 
423,  9,  58:  in  autumn,  7,  58,  59, 
61;   good  for  rails,  12,  9. 

Savage,  derivation  of  the  word,  4,  494. 

Savage,  the,  his  limited  ideas  of  the 
object  of  living,  5,  410-412;  food 
of.  8,  7. 

Saw  MiU  Brook,  3,  89,  90.  373-376. 

Sawmills,  Barrett's,  4,  23,  8,  348; 
ancient.  149;  Miles's.  190, 191,  193. 


Saw-miller,  home  of,  in  the  Catskills, 
1,  361. 

Saxifrage,  early,  7,  300, 10,  358;  well 
named,  3,  424;  one  of  the  first 
flowers,  472;  half-open  bud  of, 
473;  industrious  in  growing,  5,  24; 
early  in  bloom,  88.  89;  a  response 
to  the  increased  light  of  the  year. 
107;   going  to  seed,  179. 

Scabish,  2,  273  and  note.  See  also 
Evening-primrose. 

Scaphiopus  aolitariua.  See  Toad, 
spade-foot. 

Scarecrow,  a  human,  6,  298. 

Scenery,  English  and  American  com- 
pared, 11,  402. 

Scent,  a  primitive  inquisition,  4,  40. 

Scheuchzeria  pdlustrie,!^  11. 

Scholar,  the,  his  work  analogous  to 
the  farmer's,  3,  207. 

Scholars,  diseased  outlook  of,  1,  462. 

School,  the  lack  of  freedom  in,  11, 324. 

Science,  bravery  of,  1 ,  98;  for  men  of 
science,  2,  138;  dryness  of.  373; 
uninteresting  to  the  masses,  3,  278; 
first  step  toward,  281;  veraua  ex- 
perience, 299;  technical  terms  in, 
326-328;  youth  of,  384;  its  per- 
cep^on  of  a  Universal  Intelligence, 
4, 6;  remoter  from  truth  than  super- 
stition, 158;  facts  of,  compared  to 
poetry,  392;  definition  of,  470, 
471 ;  the  anecdotes  of,  471 ;  T.'s 
attitude  toward,  5,  4;  reason  for 
studying  books  of,  42;  nature  re- 
garded as  a  dead  language  by,  135; 
a  mistake  of  the  man  of.  10,  164, 
165;  functions  of,  294;  practical 
belief  of,  11,  359.  360;  likened  to  a 
grub,  12,  23;  inhumanity  of,  171; 
terms  used  by,  13,  141;  scientific 
descriptions,  14, 1 17-120;  a  make- 
shift, 117;  manner  in  which  dis- 
coveries are  made,  267. 

Scientific  men,  their  attitude  toward 
God.  12,  28. 

Scientific  reports,  11,  456. 

Scleroderma,  14.  173. 

Scotch-Irish,  3,  135. 

Scouring-rush  {Equiaetutn  hyemdU), 
7,  81  and  note,  401. 9,  478. 

Scum,  the  beauty  of,  6,  66;  in  a  cow- 
yard,  13,  400;  on  the  water,  14,  8; 
paper-like.  336. 

ScuteUerid(p,  Emmons  quoted  on,  9, 
319. 

Scsrthe,  the  flowers  and  the,  5,  339. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


4S2 


INDEX 


Sea,  the  populousness  of,  7,  437. 
Sea-anemones,  in  an  aquarium,  10, 

443. 
Searmew,  origin  of  name.  7,  311. 
Searserpent,  seen  by  Daniel  Webster, 

9,  415,  416;    seen  at  Swampscott, 

10,  243:.  244. 
Sea^tum8.7,  321,461. 

Seals,  in  Plymouth  Harbor,  2,  357. 

Seamen,  nautical  point  of  view  of, 
3,201. 

Seasons,  interest  of  the,  1,  306;  un- 
recognised by  the  alinanac,  2,  21; 
similarity  of,  in  the  woods,  3,  137; 
subtle  differences  between  the,  4, 
117;  regularity  of  the,  317:  rela- 
tive length  of  the,  403,  404;  of  the 
day  and  year,  5, 393;  living  accord- 
ing to  the,  394,  395;  evanescence 
of  the,  9,  406,  407;  moods  corre- 
qx>nding  to,  10, 127;  colors  of  the, 
129. 

Seaweed,  in  Tierra  del  Fuego,  2,246, 
247;  potash  made  from,  346;  near 
Plymouth,  359. 

Second  Division  Brook,  3,  361,  362. 

Secrets,  paltriness  of,  1,  322. 

Sectarianism.  11,  86.  87. 

Sedges.  3, 457,6, 205. 446.7, 3^,  385, 
8,  55,  72,  223,  9,  459, 10,  493,  506, 

11,  168, 12,  207,  208,  224, 13,  354, 
355.  402;  withered,  5,  529.  530; 
first  flowering  of,  6,  187;  season  of, 
216;  pushing  through  snow,  8, 233; 
manner  of  growth  of,  9*  461;  ca- 
pacity for  water,  10,  200;  curious 
recurving  of,  11,  377;  suggestive 
of  fire,  12,  156;  green-topped  tus- 
socks of,  161;  a  sea  of,  278;  the 
grass  of  woods  and  sprout-lands, 
393;  locks  of  the  meadow's  hair, 
13,  9;  on  the  Sudbury  meadows, 
345;  in  the  hollows  at  Ripple  Lake, 
360;  lights  and  shadows  on,  396; 
yeUow  of,  14, 5;  of  Mt.  Monadnock, 
27.28. 

Sedum  Telephium,  4,  268,  430. 

Seeds,  1,  200.  8,  335;  in  the  snow,  9, 
154;  and  the  seed-eaters.  14,  6,  7; 
how  conveyed  from  mountain  to 
mountain,  50;  of  forest  trees,  their 
value,  70;  taken  tnto  the  mouth, 
71;  transportation  of,  91;  dissemi- 
nation of,  124, 125;  the  nobler,  167, 
168. 

Seeing,  11,  285,  286;  and  saying,  3, 
85.86. 


Segger,  G.,  quoted,  1,  320. 

Selectmen,  3,  3. 

Self,  the  ideal,  2,  314,  315. 

Self-culture.  1,  79. 

Self-expression.  3,  157, 4,  308,  300. 

Self-support.  5,  19. 

Seneoio.  golden,  fragrance  of  stem  and 
leaves  of.  2,  227.  4,  40,  52,  5,  15, 
17. 6,  149. 

Sense,  rarity  of.  1,  357. 

Senses,  the.  to  be  employed,  2,  251; 
the  use  of.  330. 

Sensible,  La.  the  ship,  5,  242. 

Sentences,  a  sentence  compared  to  a 
corn-planter,  1,  313;  the  soimdest, 
333;  principle  of  Ufe  in,  480;  the 
sentence  of  the  judge,  2,  181. 

Seringo,  or  seringo-bird,  4,  3  note,  8, 
17.  18,  60,  68.  99.  6,  340,  341,  7, 
324.  509.  8,  263.  295,  388,  U,  64. 
12,  165.  14,  338:  song  of  "one  of 
the  seringos."  6, 208;  nest  and  eggs, 
of,  8,  356,  357,  388. 

Sermons,  1,  216. 

Service-berries,  5,  302,  303.  See  alao 
Shad-bush. 

Seven  feet  of  sandstone,  3,  85. 

Sexes,  relations  of  the,  3,  3J5,  4,  185. 

Shad,  rattlesnake  and,  0,  78. 

Shad-bush  (Amelanchier),5, 120.  125. 
137. 6,  253,  7,  377, 9,  374, 12,  217, 
377,  13,  426;  in  bloom,  4,  48,  6, 
253, 10,  421,  422. 13,  281,  282;  ber- 
ries of,  4, 129, 130,  224, 5,  288,  302, 
303.  7,  434  note.  13,  427;  buds  of. 
4,  419.  6,  199.  7,  321.  332;  a  bush 
compared  to  a  greyhound.  6,  50. 
See  also  Amelanchier. 

Shad-fly,  8.  372  note;  aa  food  for 
fishes,  6,  232;  numb^  of  dead,  on 
water,  232;  flights  of,  31 2, 324, 326, 
9,  404;  on  fresh  paint,  8,  322. 

Shade,  needed  before  given,  4,  32. 

Shadoof,  6,  9. 

Shadows,  1,  99,  100;  never  fall  be- 
tween us  and  the  sun.  209;  an  imp- 
ish shadow.  2,  239;  in  the  moon- 
light, 249;  diversion  furnished  by, 
454;  of  trees  on  the  snow.  3,  273; 
in  June.  4,  135.  8,  376;  of  the 
skater  insect.  4, 150:  of  grass  blades. 
150;  of  trees  observed.  218;  in  win- 
ter. 5,  227;  duplication  of  a  shadow, 

6,  449;  the  shadow  of  a  mountain, 

7,  65;  a  double  shadow,  68;  blue, 
178,  8,111,  115;  a  ship's  shadow, 
9, 254;  of  water-bugs,  10,  104,  105, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


INDEX 


4S3 


13«  204;  the  shadow  of  a  mountain 
on  the  sky.  10, 108;  of  clouds,  474, 
475,  13,  302;  of  lily  pads.  11,  98, 
99:  of  Biiddle  Ck>nantum  Cliff,  12, 
178,  179. 

Shagbarks  (the  nuts),  7,  65,  66;  on 
the  Souhegan.  9,  177  note,  187;  a 
result  of  eating.  12,  312. 

Shakespeare,  William,  1,  117;  a  gen- 
ius, not  a  scholar,  147,  148;  quoted, 

163,  4,  87;  progenitors  of,  1,  465, 
466;  unconsciousness  of,  3,  236; 
education  of,  4,  287;  factS  of  his 
life,  10,  131;  as  seen  in  his  own 
times,  11,  286. 

Shamrock,  8,  311. 

Shannon,  of  Concord,  2,  433,  434. 

Shark,  a  man-eating,  7,  437. 

Shattuck,  Henry,  8,  112. 

Shattuck,  Lemuel,  his  History  of  Con- 
cord, quoted,  9,  255,  256,  264;  Mi- 
nott's  criticism  of  the  History,  11, 
110. 

Shaw,  Capt.  William,  7,  475. 

Shearman.  John,  house  of.  7,  483. 

Sheep,  4,  345;  dung  of ,  2,  131;  in  a 
great  snow-storm,  8,  164;  bleat  of, 
10,  126;  poisonetl.  12,  350. 

SheepVsorrel.  See.  Sorrel. 

Sheldrake,  or  merganser,  6,  114,  6, 
159,  7,  77,  243.  244,  252.  271.  280, 
299,  314,  8,  251,  298,  299.  304,  9, 
287,  365, 12,  106,  107;  flight  over 
water,  7,  252;  reconnoitring.  310; 
swallowing  a  large  perch,  8,  38; 
hardiness  of,  192, 13, 167;  finds  the 
open  places  in  the  river,  8, 197, 198, 
304;  an  active  flock  of,  10,  317, 
318;  mating,  321-324;  a  party  of, 
fishing  and  playing.  333.  334;  a 
pair,  12, 101;  fishing.  134, 135.  13, 
197;  a  lively  bird,  12,  135;  with  a 
sucker,  149;  the  first,  in  spring,  13, 

164,  165;  in  late  December,  182; 
suggestive  of  health  and  vigor,  198; 
native  to  the  river,  213,  214.  See 
also  Gk)osander. 

Shells,  inland.  3,  478;  Pelaaii  and 

Liitorales,  5,  509;  like  bugle-horns. 

510;  on  hilltops,  7,  243;  found  in 

a  field.  467. 
Shepherd's-purse,3,469.5, 47,6,  216, 

217,  7,  333;  in  December.  4,  426; 

leaves  of,  on  the  water,  7,  132.     . 
Shiftlessness.  9,  182. 
Shiner,  1,  476, 11,  373,  374.  377,  454; 

a  hieroglyphic  of  spring,  6,  173; 


caught  through  ice,  7,  283;  school 

of.  11,  194,  195. 
Shoes.  2,  5;  buying  a  pair  of,  12,  31 1. 

•  See  also  Boots. 
Shoe-strings,  6,  333-335. 
Shovels,  "shod,"  11,  228. 
Shrew,   short-tailed   {Sorex  brevicau- 

due),  8,  408,  409.   See  aUo  Mole. 

shrew. 
Shrike,  or  bi'tcher-bird,  2, 129, 6, 184, 

7,  223.  8,  67.  68. 13,  34;   flight  of, 

8,  162.  13,  105:    in  captivity,  11, 
352;  song  of.  12,  19.  20. 

"Shrike.  The,"  verse,  1,  74. 
Shrubs,  lists  of.  with  respect  to  lei^- 

ing.  5,  126.  160. 6,  297-302, 7,  357, 

358, 13,  319,  320;  blooming  before 

May  1st,  12,  133. 
Siasconset.  a  visit  to,  7,  93-96. 
Sibley,  John  Langdon,  4,  439. 
Sickness,  only  physical,  1,  214;    not 

to  be  jaelded  to  221;  healthfulness 

of.  2,  143;  derangement  caused  by, 

10,  188. 
Sidesaddle-flower.  See  Pitcher-plant. 
Sidney,  Sir  Philip,  1,  465. 
Sienite.  pebbles  of,  10,  244;  boulders 

of.  245,  246;  flora  in  region  of,  12, 

164. 
Signalling,  9,  446;  from  a  mountain- 
top,  14,  24. 
Silence,  scraps  from  an  essay  on,  1, 

64-69;    a  thought  concerning,  73; 

endless,  210;    eloquence  in,  248; 

i:outing  troublesome  people  with. 

460.  461;  music  of,  4,  471,  472. 
SUene    Antirrhina.       See    Gatchfly, 

sleepy. 
"Silliman's  Journal,"  8,  423, 11,  438. 
Simonds,  of  Bedford,  12,  213. 
Simons,  Martha,  an  Indian,  8,  390, 

391. 
Simplicity,  5, 444-446;  exuberance  of, 

1,  342.  343;   nature's  law.  3,  324; 

in  living.  5,  410-412;  the  delights 

of,  7,  503. 
Sims,  the  negro,  rendition  of,  2,  173- 

182 
Sin.  1*,  300. 
Sincerity.  1,  191. 

Singing,  2*  72, 8,  294;  a  laborer  sing- 
ing at  a  distance.  2,  303. 
Sium.  fields  of.  5,  382;  in  winter,  8, 

72. 
Skate-tracks.  7,  167,  171. 
Skater  insect,  4,  182,  382,  384,  5,  70, 

8,  268. 12, 100;  shadows  of.  4, 150. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


434 


INDEX 


Skaters.  11,  453. 

Skating.  2,  157,  9,  165-167;  the  de- 
lights of  7,  85. 11,  381.  382;  rapid 
motion  in,  7,  115,  116;  under  sail, 
155,  166;  sound  of,  164;  through 
snow,  165-169. 

Skeleton,  of  an  Indian,  5«  48;  an 
expression  of  a  Universal  Intelli- 
gence, 6,  4. 

Sketches,  the,  in  the  Journal,  9,  174, 
175. 

Skinner,  the  harness-maker,  9,  456, 
10,  438, 12,  192;  hears  a  wildcat, 

10,  113,  212.  213. 

Skunk.  2,  355. 5,  258.  8,  38;  odor  of. 
2,  5,  5,  280,  6,  139;  holes  of.  5,  50. 
137;  a  little.  284,  285;  watching 
a,  6,  160-162;  gait  of,  161;  pat- 
ting the  earth.  161,  162;  tracks  of, 
162,  7,  153,  196;  travelling  over 
enow,  178;  enemy  of  birds,  252; 
probing  the  sod,  273;  probings  of, 
356,  8,  284;  smelt  at  a  distance. 
255,  256;  in  winter.  10,  298;  'food 
of,  12,  113;  traflBc  in  skins  of,  122; 
time  of  coming  out,  13,  162;  eaten 
by  fox,  205. 

Skunk-cabbage,  2,  158.  3,  245,  423, 
437,  472,  5,  13,  55,  56,  381.  7,  236, 
292.  301.  328,  0,  302.  10,  316,  12, 
16.  17.  13,  171,  233.  234;  odor  of, 
2,  220;  seen  in  January,  3,  359;  vis- 
ited by  bees,  4,  171,  5,  96;  nuts  of. 
84;  as  a  drinking-cup,  296;  spring 
growth  of.  in  fall.  6,  187;  fruit  of 
the,  489. 11,  82,  83;  the  first  flower 
of  the  spring.  8,  239.  240. 248.  249; 
the  spathe  and  spadix  of,  248,  249; 
courage  of.  10,  150. 151;  preparing 
for  spring.  12,  325;  various  colors 
of.  13,  199.  200;  pollen  of,  202. 

Sky.  the  color  of.  at  night.  2,  483; 
the  mind  and,  3,  201;  variety  in 
aspect  of,  396;  seen  between  downy 
clouds,  467;  on  a  May  night,  4, 13; 
of  August,  272;  in  winter,  468.  9, 
159;  itsbliieness  when  seen  between 
clouds.  5, 290;  likened  to  a  pigeon's 
neck^7,  81;  like  glass,  87;  likened 
to  a  shell.  106;   a  rest  for  the  eye. 

11,  295.  296;  darkness  of.  over 
snow,  445;  green  in,  12, 25;  an  ever- 
changing  panorama,  13,  22,  23; 
safe  from  man's  vandalism,  14, 306, 
307. 

Sky.  mackerel  7,  125. 11,  410,  411. 
Skylights,  9,  209. 


Sky-line,  of  trees,  9, 150. 

Slaughter-house,  1,  480.  481. 

Slave  States,  sites  of  rank  weeds,  12, 
341. 

Slavery,  of  the  heart  and  intellect,  1, 
362,  363;  Northern.  427.  428;  uni- 
versality of.  14,  292-294. 

Slavery,  negro,  the  Fugitive  Slave 
Law,  2,  175-178;  a  fungus,  5,  274; 
attitude  of  Massachusetts  toward, 
6,  313-315,  339.  340;  evil  of.  361, 
365,  366;  the  government's  protec- 
tion of,  12,  400;  and  John  Brown's 
raid,  400-410,  439;  Massachusetts 
abetting  the  cause  of,  404. 

Slaves,  a  fugitive  slave  aided.  3,  37. 
38;  superstitions  among.  38;  trial 
by  jury  for  runaway.  6,  367;  a 
Concord  runaway  slave.  10,  284, 
285;  a  fugitive  in  Canada.  14,  292- 
294.  See  also  Burns  and  Sims. 

Sled,  never  seen  by  woodchuck,  13, 
219. 

Sledge-tracks.  6,  140. 

Sleeman,  Sir  William  Henry.  4,  209. 

Sleep.  1,  177.  216.  11,  431;  awaken- 
ing from.  2,  213;  the  gift  of  the 
gods,  495,  496;  the  mind  during,  3, 
354. 

Sleighing,  the  last  of  the  season,  13, 
220,  221. 

Slocum,  of  Sconticut  Neck,  8,  389, 
390. 

Slug,  on  chestnut  tree,  10,  124,  125. 

Sluggard,  the,  3,  246. 

Small,  Isaac,  7,  433. 

Small.  James,  keeper  of  Highland 
Light.  7,  433-441. 9,-439,  445.  448, 
449;   talk  with,  441,  442. 

Small,  Uncle  Sam.  7,  434,  437,  442, 
9,  441;   a  talk  with,  447.  448. 

Smelts,  catching  of,  9,  325,  326. 

Smilacina  berries,  9,  51. 

Smilaeina  racemoaa,  5,  392,  7,  434, 
10,84;  Cape  Cod  names  for.  9,  441; 
berries  of,  12,  319.  320. 

Smilax.   See  Green-briar. 

Smith.  Gideon  B..  quoted.  7,  267. 

Smith,  Joe.  11,  455, 12,  244. 

Smith,  Capt.  John.  3, 117;  his  "  Gen- 
eral Historic  of  Virginia,"  4,  494; 
quoted,  5,  21;  on  the  flying  squir- 
rel. 7,  267. 

Smith,  Julius.  12,  169. 

Smith,  Thomas.  7,  476. 

Smith,  William,  his  Dictionary  of  An- 
tiquities. 9,  138. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


435 


Smith,  Zenas.  7,  475. 

Smithsonian  Institution,  6f  200. 

Smoke,  suggestive  of  the  poetry  of 
domestic  life,  1,  296,  297;  seen  at 
a  distance,  2,  489;  compaurison  of, 
to  cloud,  4,  317;  of  burning  mea- 
dows, 6«  442,  443;  in  wintry  air,  7, 
172;  warns  of  change  in  wind,  443; 
imagined  issuing  from  a  snowed-up 
house,  8, 101;  colors  of,  10,  82,  83; 
from  a  chimney,  train  of  thoughts 
suggested  by,  12,  366-368;  seen  at 
great  distances,  13,  269. 

Smrities,  rites  of  the,  2,  32. 

Smut,  on  Polygonum  Careyi,  9,  83. 

Smyth,  C.  Piazzi.  11,  48  note. 

Snail  {Helix  cUbolabris),  8,  242. 

Snail  {Paludina  deciaa),  8,  214.  12, 
261,  262. 

Snails,  7,  470, 12,  261,  262,  396:  shell- 
less,  7,  507;  left  on  ice  during  a 
thaw,  13,  124. 

Snake,  black,  3,  63,  9,  316;  vibrating 
tail, 6, 375;  described,  375;  strength 
of  body  after  death  of  head,  376; 
swallowing  of  young  by ,  461 ;  skele- 
ton of,  7, 356;  entering  its  hole,  370; 
gliding  over  bushes,  399;  crossing 
Walden,  9,  356;  tree-climbing,  10, 
423-426;  eggs  of.  429;  in  the  tops 
of  shrubs,  12,  193,  194;  laying,  13, 
375,  376. 

Snake,  chicken,  another  snake  eaten 
by,  12,  277.  See  also  Adder,  check- 
ered. 

Snake,  green,  4,  43. 13,  303. 

Snake,  little  brown  (Coluber  ordinor- 
tua),  10,  139.  140,11,223. 

Snake,  red  (Coluber  am(Bnu«),9,  110, 
10,  29.  30.  387. 

Snake,  striped,  10,  342.  343. 12,  114. 
198;  a  burned,  2,  31;  a  song  spar- 
row saved  from  a,  5,  143;  swim- 
ming. 8,  267.  9,  342;  swallowing 
a  frog.  8,  346;  description  of,  9, 
342.  343;  killing  a.  343;  casting  its 
slough.  412;  vanquished  by  a  bull- 
frog, 10,  45;  swallowing  a  toad,  11, 
142,  143. 

Snake,  water.  4,  70  and  note.  5,  209. 
See  also  Adder,  water. 

Snakes,  venom  exhibited  by,  2,  32; 
the  snake  in  the  stomach,  393;  toad 
rescued  from  a,  423;  enjoying  the 
sun,  3,  59;  the  mower's  encounters 
with.  5,  354;  Irishman  and,  354, 
355;  eggs  of,  9,  201.  202;  rescue  of 


a  snake  from  the  river,  334;  killing, 
343;  man's  antipathy  to,  10,  154. 
See  oho  Adders  and  Coluber  puncta- 

tU8. 

Snakes,  imidentified,  6,  252. 12,  173. 

Snapdragon.  4,  89. 

Snapdragon,  Canada.  3,  62.  4,  387. 

Snipe,  7,  31 1 . 8,  407, 9, 183;  winnow- 
ing of.  5,  81,  106.  6,  201.  208.  7, 
298,  8,  286.  10,  363.  12,  108,  109. 
163;  notes  of.  6,  192.  201.  7,  340. 
8,  310.  12,  82;  alighting.  6,  192. 
201;  flight  of,  201;  feeding,  7,  339. 
340;  wings  of,  339;  the  meadow 
alive  with.  8,  309.  310;  ready  to 
charge  bayonet^,  10,  330. 

Snorro  Sturleson.  3,  304. 

Snorro  Sturleson's  Chronicle.  3,  193. 

Snow,  on  the  pitch  pine,  1, 183;  filter- 
ing down  from  the  trees,  184;  the 
woods  covered  with,  184;  various 
forms  taken  by,  on  trees,  185;  effect 
of  falling.  305;  fantastic  shapes 
taken  by,  3,  154,  155;  a  strainer  of 
the  air,  180;  ruts  in,  190;  the  poor 
mian's  manure,  355;  makes  moles 
of  men,  6,  27;  the  great  revealer, 
29.  30.  43-45,  124,  132;  measure- 
ments of,  47,  8,  105-107,  133,  134, 
148,  149,  151-153.  178,  183,  200, 
201,  210,  211,  236;  whiteness  of. 
in  April,  6,  203;  character  of  the 
first,  7,  78;  on  the  ice,  87;  the  blue 
in,  117;  drapery  in  woods,  118-123; 
forms  of.  on  different  trees.  147. 148; 
a  lodging.  148,  150;  a  spitting  of. 
165;  horses  dashing  through.  176; 
an  impediment  to  animals,  177. 178; 
useful  in  exposing  weeds,  197: 
melted  banks  of,  along  the  rail- 
road. 220;  a  track-revealer.  8, 29. 39, 
47;  betrays  the  doings  of  men,  133; 
fresh  falls  of,  155;  phenomenon  of 
melting,  238;  a  help  to  birds.  9, 145; 
in  the  meadows.  149.  150;  light 
from,  177;  beauty  of,  196. 197;  dried 
by  cold  wind.  204;  appearance  of 
surface  of.  207;  effect  on  sound  and 
on  light.  227.  228;  raised  track  on. 
213,232;  surface  of .  272. 285;  time 
when  it  balls,  10,  291;  laws  seen  in 
melted,  299;  the  first  tidings  of,  11, 
301;  on  the  pines.  388-390;  spring. 
12,  15;  after  rain.  13,  36.  37;  fur- 
rows in,  40;  the  revealer,  73-77; 
blowing  over  ice,  96;  amid  the 
button-bushes,  137;    outlining  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


436 


INDEX 


trees,  147, 148;  use  to  birds  of  drift- 
ing of,  156,  167. 

Snow,  commercial  editor  of  "New 
York  Tribune,"  7,  76. 

Snow,  Captain,  of  Cohasset,  2  9  348. 

Snow  arch,  in  Tuckennan's  Ravine, 
11,  25. 

Showballs,  13,  24-26. 

Snowbird,  blue  or  slate-colored.  See 
FringiUa  hyemalie. 

Snow-crust,  9,  220.  235. 

Snow-drift8,agoodstudy,3, 186, 187; 
as  indexes  of  equilibrium  between 
air-currents,  6,  42;  formation  of, 
137;  forms  of,  7, 124, 8, 02, 98, 154; 
on  windows,  7,  176;  edges  of,  178; 
on  Concord  River,  13,  119-121. 

Snow-dust,  3,  307. 

Snowflakes,  4,  464;  geometry  in,  8, 
49;  star  crystals,  87-89. 13, 85,  86; 
the  wonders  of,  10, 239;  the  fall  of, 
242. 

Snow-fleas.  2,  125.  138. 3,  192, 6,  49, 
113,  114,  8,  266,  337,  13,  79;  re- 
semblance of,  to  powder,  4,  426; 
under  leaves,  5,  30;  after  a  flood, 
464,  611;    food  for  birds,  6,  60;  a 

'  spring  phenomenon,  8, 208;  a  cool- 
weather  phenomenon,  12,  450: 
habits  of,  13,  101,  102;  called  to 
life  by  thaw.  116. 

Snow-storm,  Homer's  account  of  a, 
quoted,  1,  61;  an  old-fashioned,  2, 
128,  129;  first  of  the  season,  4, 
414;  compared  to  ocean,  6, 29;  de- 
scription of  a,  32,  33;  the  great 
snow  of  1717,  8,  163-165;  a  robin 
snow,  9,  290;  different  varieties  of, 
13,  27,  28. 

Snow-water,  5,  17. 

Social  virtues,  4,  397. 

Society,  a  terra  finna  in,  1,  77;  in- 
spiration of  lonely  hours  finding  ex- 
pression in,  129;  heresy  in,  162;  a 
fountain  of  health,  222;  suspicious- 
ness of,  287,  288;  an  expression  of 
faith,  323;  insipidity  of.  353;  ob- 
ligations to,  2,  141;  preferred  to 
Nature,  152;  obedience  to  laws  of, 
333;  social  dyspepsia,  3,  103;  rea- 
son for  social  gatherings.  115;  com- 
pared to  a  madhouse,  270;  isolates 
from  Nature,  4,  262;  disadvan- 
tages of.  8,  204;  irksomeness  of, 
9,  200;  cheapness  of  human.  208. 
210,  246;  definition  of  good,  215; 
a  term  misunderstood,  307;  isolat- 


ing e£fect  of,  U,  126;  evading,  13, 
332.  333;  non-producers  in.  342, 
343. 

Soil,  thinness  of  the  upper,  6,  456; 
clayey  at  Eagleswood,  N.  J.,  9, 
139. 

Solanum  Dulcamara.  See  Nightshade. 

Soldiers,  prerogatives  of,  1,  101;  life 
in  camp,  160;  dress  of,  197;  buried 
in  Lincoln  graveyard.  2,  19,  20; 
drill  of,  in  Canada,  398;  as  a  class, 
8,  189,  190. 

Solidago.  See  Goldenrod. 

Solitude,  the  necessity  of,  1,  219,  220, 
240,  241;  wintry,  2,  122;  advan- 
tages of,  302, 7, 46;  need  of,  6, 439; 
common  lack  of  appreciation  of,  9, 
46;  preference  for,  200;  exaltation 
of.  208.  209;  refreshing  effect  of, 
431.  432;  sweetness  of,  450. 

Solomon's-seal,  large,  6,  416. 

Solomon's-seal.  two-leaved  (Con^ 
vallaria  bifolia),  scent  of.  4,  73; 
berries  of,  9i  51, 14,  5. 

Solon,  1,  163.  164. 

Song,  T.'s  favorite,  9,  393  and  note. 

"Song  of  Solomon,"  quoted,  13,  106. 

Sophocles,  his  "(Edipus  at  Colonos," 
quoted,  9,  372.  373. 

Sorghum  saccharatum,  9,  62. 

Sorrel,  reddening  the  fields,  4,  93. 5^ 
219. 

Sorrel,  wood,  4,  95. 

Sorrow,  to  be  cherished,  1,  95;  Na- 
ture's lack  of  sympathy  for,  l72; 
calls  attention  to  pleasure,  358. 

Sorten  VirgUianae,  3,  134,  135. 

Soul,  the,  compared  to  a  harp,  1,  53; 
its  kinship  with  the  body,  174, 176; 
its  destiny  inscrutable,  359;  played 
on  like  a  wire,  2,  497. 

Soule,  Jonathan,  7,  476. 

Soule,  Joseph.  7,  475. 

Souls,  migration  of.  1,  176. 

Sound,  refreshment  in,  1,  170;  mean- 
ing of  word,  227;  uplift  of,  265; 
transmission  of,  2,  236;  when  heard 
at  a  great  distance,  3,  68;  com- 
municated through  water,  5,  313; 
flowing  over  surface  of  water,  507; 
mission  of,  6,  39;  appetite  for,  10, 
227;  musical  quality  of,  13,  129. 

Sound  and  Silence,  essay  on,  1,  64. 

Sounds,  cheer  during  illness,  1,  223, 
224;  inaudible,  321;  of  running 
water,  2,  300;  heard  by  all  the 
senses,  442;  of  falling  water,  3, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


4S7 


376;  of  wind  and  water  compared. 
443;  an  unidentified  ground  buzz- 
ing, 6«  67;  strange.  7, 12;  in  a  fog. 
187;  of  the  woods.  375;  intiiemist, 
8, 14;  of  the  rain,  243;  distant,  10, 
194;  in  early  spring.  112,  34;  of 
awakened  nature,  147,  148;  at  and 
after  sunset,  13,  331. 

South  America,  Darwin  on,  2,  241- 
248,  261,  262. 

Sower,  the.  4,  4. 

Sparganium.  See  Bur-reed. 

Sparkles,  3,  93,  94,  204;  diamond 
dance  of,  97. 

Sparrow,  chipping,  or  chip-bird,  4, 
10,  7,  43,  337,  11,  197,  14,  161; 
notes  of.  4,  3,  4.  109.  253.  5,  103, 
215,  6,  194.  9,  345,  13,  249;  con- 
stancy of,  4,  278;  nest  of,  7,  386. 

Sparrow,  field,  or  rush  sparrow,  or 
huckleberry-bird  {Fringilla  jun- 
corum  or  pusilla),  1,  252,  265,  266, 
2,  312, 5,  109,6,  252. 0,  105;  notes 
of,  3,  470.  4,  117,  5,  119.  332.  6, 
194.  7,  333  and  note.  335.  8,  265. 
287;  habitation  of.  4,  5;  nest  and 
eggs  of,  7,  410,  419.  420;  setting 
out  pines  to  the  music  of,  12,  154, 
155. 

Sparrow,  fox-colored.  5,  76,  77,  7, 
282,  8,  253,  12,  111,  112;  signifi- 
cance of  his  coming,  8,  367;  notes 
of.  5,  94. 6,  168,10,  318,  320.  332. 

12,  120,  13,  214;  manner  of  feed- 
ing, 8,  266. 

Sparrow,  Savannah  {FringiUa  Sa- 
vanna), 5, 109,  7,  3,  4,  8,  387,  388; 
notes  of,  4,  3;  egg  of,  8,  357  note, 

9,  413.    See  also  Seringo. 
Sparrow,    song    (FrinoUla   melodia), 

1,  441,  5,  79.  84.  460,  461.  517.  7, 
276. 8,  252.  254;  notes  of.  2,  308, 3, 
376.  5,  26.  31.  32.  37.  93.  6,  163. 
169.  252.  7,  53,  58,  258.  261.  263. 
285,  287.  8,  244,  254,  384,  9,  305. 

10,  273. 302.  319. 11,  7. 12, 394, 13, 
196,  197;  herald  of  spring.  3,  356; 
message  of.  367;  planning  to  build. 
5,  69,  70;  saved  from  a  snake.  143; 
flight  of,  6,  157;  wariness  of,  212; 
wading.  7,  328;  nest  of.  407.  412. 
8,  356.  387,  9,  479,  10,  387,  493, 

13,  280;  deserting  her  nest,  7,  421; 
two  kinds  of,  8,  387;  in  winter,  9, 
222,  233;  eggs  of,  10,  494;  feed- 
ing, 12,  67,  68;  inconspicuous,  13, 
177. 


Sparrow,  swamp,  ff,  109,  7,  396,  397, 

13,  310;  flitting  and  lurking,  6. 223. 

Sparrow,  tree,  5,  60.  77.  7,  302.  328, 

8,  202,9, 153,  207. 10, 193,  240, 13, 
100;  notes  of,  4,  4,  5,  83,  91,  94. 
460,  6,  27,  178.  202.  203,  7,  178, 
261,  285,  287,  295,  335,  8,  14,  28. 

9,  183,  184.  10,  309.  366,  12,  120; 
picking  seeds  from  larch  cones,  6, 
5;  its  fondness  for  snow.  31;  visit- 
ing the  yard.  7,  302;  bathing,  9, 
233,  234;  in  pursuit  of  one  another, 

10,  91;  feeding  in  the  snow,  241; 
feeding  and  singing,  12,  67,  68; 
feeding  on  the  panicled  andromeda, 
13,  91,  92;  activity  of,  105,  106. 

Sparrow,  white-crowned,  8,  398. 

Sparrow,  white-throated,  5,  119  and 
note,  7,  6.  333,  8,  301,  398;  male 
and  female.  7,  334.  335;  song  of, 
368, 10,  248  and  note;  stoutness  of, 
388;  in  Moultonboro,  N.  H.,  11, 10. 

Sparrow,  yellow-winged  (FringiUa 
pa»8erina),e,  320,  334, 8,  387,  388, 

11,  64;  egg  of.  8,  357  note.  9,  413. 
Sparrows,  on  the  roof.  2,  69;  in  No- 
vember, 89;  vespers  of  a  sparrow, 
257;  messages  of  the  migrating,  3, 
367,  368;  concerts  of.  5,  76,  77, 12, 
120;  a  withered  leaf,  5,  489;  a 
sparrow  in  the  house,  6,  197,  198; 
a  sparrow  pursued  by  a  hawk,  7, 
509,  510;  autumn  flocks  of,  9,  HI, 
123;  an  inquisitive  sparrow,  125; 
and  thoughts.  10, 128;  eating  hard- 
hack  seeds.  13,  31. 

Sparrows,  unidentified.  5,  454.  465, 
472.  473,  476.  480.  6,  396.  7,  3.  6. 
429. 13, 369,  370.  See  also  Seringo. 

Spatterdock.   See  Lily,  great  yellow. 

Spaulding,  of  Mt.  Washington,  11, 21. 

Spawn,  "oat."  7,  369. 10,  419;  other 
unidentified,  6,  267.  380.  381,  10, 
487,488. 

Speaker,  public,  educated  and  un- 
educated, 13,  82.  83. 

Spearers.     See  Fish-spearers. 

Spearmint.  9,  5. 

Species,  the  greediness  of.  14,  331. 

Specularia  perfoliata,  5,  202,  296. 

Speculation,  1,61. 

Speech,  freedom  of,  true  meaning  of. 
11,  324-327. 

Speedwell,  smooth  or  thyme-leaved 
{Veronica  aerpyUif olid),  5^  146, 188. 
200,  455,  6,  248;  where  found,  9, 
386. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


438 


INDEX 


Spenser,  Edmund,  progenitor  of 
Shakespeare.  1*  465. 

Spergularia  rubra,  4,  277. 

Sphagnum,  4,  459;  frozen,  7,  138, 10, 
268,  269;  forms  and  colors  of,  8, 
65,  56;  as  bed  for  cranberries,  9, 
38,  39;  rose-colored,  12.  8,  9;  cold- 
ness of,  393;  suggestive  of  a  moun- 
tainous country,  396,  397;  drum- 
sticks of,  14,  5. 

"Sphinx,  The,"  Emerson's  poem 
interpreted,  1,  229-237. 

Spiders,  14,  173;  water  spiders,  3, 
161;  a  white  spider,  4,  195;  a 
yellow  spider,  195;  holes  of,  5, 
72,  73,  456,  7,  440;  Hassley  on, 
5,  109;  a  great  black  spider  and 
its  nest,  406;  webs  of,  465,  467, 
469,  470;  on  the  water,  508, 9,  129; 
nest  of,  7,  403;  young,  8,  418; 
huge  webs  of  a  spider,  11,  148; 
webs  of  the  yellow-backed  spider, 
166,  157;  on  ice,  428,  12,  43;  a 
spider  caught  in  his  own  net,  294; 
at  work.  356.  See  also  Cobwebs  and 
Gossamer. 

Spikenard,  5,  330. 

Spiranihea  cemua,  5,  390,  9,  66,  12, 
325. 

SpirantheB  gracilis,  9,  29. 

Spirit,  the  life  of  the,  2,  317. 

Spirit  of  Ix)din,  The,  2,  188. 

Spleenwort,  dwarf.  5,  405. 

SpoflFord,  Jesse,  gravestone  of,  4,  343. 

Sponge,  fresh-water,  6,  468,  8,  422, 
14,  116. 

Sport,  unlawful,  2,  313. 

Sportsman,  the  true,  11,  286,  287.  / 

Sprats,  a  story  of,  5,  198. 

Spring,  yellows  of,  4,  27,  108;  au- 
tumn remembered  in,  44;  revival 
of,  by  dawn,  180;  age  of,  205;  first 
signs  of,  5,  8,  13.  9,  278,  303,  304, 
13, 138;  in  man,  5,  34;  an  appoint- 
ment with,  36;  progress  of,  6,  228; 
the  "striped  squirrel  spring,"  7, 
230;  the  footsteps  of,  8,  232,  233; 
harbinger  of  disease  and  death, 
269;  poem  of.  9,  270;  the  longing 
for,  12,  4.  5;  imperceptible  work- 
ings of.  8;  in  "The  Song  of  Solo- 
mon," 13,  106. 

Spring,  Marcus,  9,  138. 

Spring-board,  bounds  from  a,  3,  107. 

Springs,  a  spring  at  Hull,  2,  346;  cold- 
ness of.  4,  104;  Nature's  udders, 
188;    attraction  of,   to  frogs  and 


fishes,  221;  clearing  out  a  spring, 
8,  337;  how  to  get  clear  water  from 
a  spring,  385;  beauty  of,  9,  477, 
478;  the  temperatiu^  of  CJoncord, 
13,  387-389;  the  use  of,  390-392; 
the  best  way  to  drink  at  a  shallow 
spring,  398. 

Sprouts,  as  a  theme  for  a  book,  10, 
258. 

Sprout-lands,  vegetation  in,  6,  374, 
375. 

Spruce,  ice  on,  4,  441;  slant  of  lower 
limbs  of,  11,  36. 

Spruce,  black,  1, 271  and  note.  2,  216, 
217;  Michauxon,  199;  hanging  moss 
on,  3,  138;  with  young  cones  and 
bursting  leaf-buds,  6,  186,  186; 
cones  of.  478,  7,  415,  9,  378;  a 
Christmas-tree,  6,  22,  24,  25;  Con- 
cord ignorance  in  regard  to,  22;  in 
winter,  51;  curve  in  branches  of, 
64;  correction  of  error  in  identifica- 
tion of  the  two  spruces,  9,  378;  slow 
growth  of,  390;  an  abnormal  growth 
of,  10,  281,  282;  on  Mt.  Monad- 
nock,  468,  469,  14,  29-31;  on  Mt. 
Washington,  11,  18,  26,  27,  31, 
32,  36-38,  59-62;  on  Mt.  Lafayette, 
44-46,  48,  49;  growth  of,  in  Ledum 
Swamp,  241;   buds  of,  13,  335. 

Spruce,  white,  Michaux  on,  2,  199. 

Spruce  gimi,  11 ,  33. 

Spruce  tea,  10,  274. 

Spur  of  the  moment,  the,  3,  231. 

Spy-glass,  compared  with  a  gun,  5, 66; 
purchase  of  a,  6, 192.  See  Glass  and 
Telescopes. 

Squash,  a  heavy,  10,  49,  261. 

Squash,  Valparaiso,  introduced  into 
the  United  States,  14,  262. 

Squash-bugs.  2,  86. 

Squeen,  Lydia,  and  her  children, 
gravestones  of,  7,  472. 

Squirrel,  derivation  of  the  word,  10, 
66. 

Squirrel,  black,  7,  73. 

Squirrel,  flying,  capture  and  libera- 
tion of.  7, 263-267;  flatness  of  body, 
10, 220;  nest  and  young  of,  12, 207; 
nest  of,  215. 

Squirrel,  gray.  3,  67, 131  5,  47, 6,  40, 
41, 8,  21 ,  172, 173. 10,  175, 13,  284, 
285;  turning  the  cylinder,  2,  466; 
a  cumiing,  3, 31 .  32;  nest  of,  5, 208, 
7,  364, 8, 163, 10,  461, 13,  257, 258, 
318,  319;  Brooks  on  the,  6,  18; 
tracks  of,  41, 13, 97, 98;  in  Philadel- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


439 


phia  squares,  7,  73;  in  "New Eng- 
land's Prospect,"  135;  as  an  acrobat, 
363;  two  chasing  each  other  and 
feeding.  506,  507;  a  method  of 
shooting,  13,  104;  nest  and  young 
of.  257.  318,  319;  a  tame,  14,  161. 
Squirrel,  red,  4,  449.  6,  132, 10,  339. 
12, 158,13, 36. 214;  tapping  maples, 
3,  126.  9,  340,  341;  tracks  of.  4, 
449.  450;  noises  made  by,  6, 6. 285, 
409. 6,  55,  8,  15. 9,  297, 10,  41,  42, 
12, 99, 100. 13, 189;  nests  of,  6, 129. 
13,317;  pine  cone  and,  7,  238;  eat- 
ing an  apple,  519;  color  of,  8,  51; 
a  trick  of,  9,  290;  agency  of,  in 
planting  trees,  10,  39,  40;  an  in- 
quisitive, 65;  eating  a  toadstool,  97, 
98;  an  acrobat.  218;  food  of.  418. 
419;  a  conversation  with,  11,  298, 
299;  singing  and  whistling  at  once, 

12,  99.  100;  and  pitch  pine  cones, 
*107,  108;    burrowing  in  the  snow, 

13,  89;  habits  of,  93;  amusing  be- 
havior of,  189;  nest  and  young 
of,  317;  Mr.  Alcott's  squirrels,  14, 
147. 

Squirrel,  striped  or  chipping  or  ground, 
or  chipmunk,  3, 112, 5,  35, 487.  488, 
8,  173,  223,  224.  14,  142;  bark  of, 
6,  12;  small  size  of,  7,  201;  prey 
of  a  weasel,  207;  diving  into  his 
hole,  234;  young,  398,  424;  agility 
of,  488;  food  of,  501;  the  wall-go- 
ing squirrel.  10,  78;  eating  acorns, 
1 29;  eating  a  mouse.  208;  at  play 
with  her  young.  508,  509;  and  the 
hazel  harvest.  11,  133.  143.  144; 
its  stripes  a  punctuation-mark,  12, 
56. 

Squirrels,  1,  146.  425.  484.  2,  29,4, 
449,  450,  5,  471, 6.  50.  7,  270.  447, 
618,  12,  25;  in  a  forest  fire,  2,  24; 
close  observers  of  Nature,  128; 
eating  apples.  139;  nests  of,  3,  425, 
5,  474,  480, 6,  54,  55, 10,  175,  339, 

12,  158;  tracks  of,  4,  449,  7,  180. 
8,  47,  81.  127,  128,  136.  137.  200, 

13,  32;  method  of,  with  pignuts.  4» 
451,  452;  service  of.  to  chestnuts, 
5,  9;  the  true  owners  of  the  nuts, 
487;  their  burrows  in  snow,  7, 106, 
107,8,62,81.82;  a  pitch  pine  cone 
cut  off  by  a  squirrel.  7,  115;  and 
hollow  trees.  8, 127;  feeding  on  pitch 
pine  cones,  127-129,  142;  agency 
of.  in  dispersing  seeds,  335, 363;  eat- 
ing  sweet  viburnum  berries  and 


hazelnuts,  9,  60,  61 ;  and  chestiiut 
bujs,  179, 13,  38,  39;  their  remedy 
for  pitch,  10,  29;  white  pine  cones 
thrown  down  by,  33;  pitch  pine 
twigs  cast  down  by,  64, 14, 196, 197; 
and  bad  pignutb,  10,  137;  rocky 
retreat  of  a  squirrel,  420.  421;  har- 
vesting hazelnuts,  11,  132,  133; 
corn  eaten  by,  12,  362,  363;  win- 
ter food  of.  13,  32.  33,  38,  39;  man- 
ner of  stripping  pitch  {)ine  cones, 
367;  gathering  chestnuts,  14,  137, 
138;  planting  oaks,  142,  143;  our 
gratitude  to,  1 66;  sowing  pine  seed, 
197;  preparing  for  winter,  198;  our 
benefactors,  200;  their  harvest  of 
pine  cones,  201;  necessity  for  ac- 
tivity of,  211,  212;  their  manner 
of  stripping  a  pine  cone,  319,  320. 

Stachys  aspera,  4,  229. 

Stacy,  of  Concord,  5,  41. 

Stacy,  J..  4,  303. 

Stags.  3,  414,  415. 

Stake-driver.  See  Bittern. 

Stalactites,  patterns  in.  2«  70. 

Stallo,  the  German,  4,  295. 

Staples,  Samuel,  familiarity  of.  2, 285; 
on  Wendell  Phillips's  oratory,  7, 
211;  his  prosperity,  10,  221;  on 
honesty,  222;  character  of,  230; 
on  milk-farming,  11,  454;  on  John 
Brown,  14,  291,  292. 

Starlight,  marks  the  hour,  2,  379,  4, 
161. 

Stars.  1,  90,  170;  reflections  of,  90, 
4, 105;  the  moon  cut  up  into.  1, 189; 
their  relation  to  man.  338,  339; 
God's  dreams.  349;  a  roof  of.  2, 372; 
lying  under  the,  381;  as  guides,  3, 
38;  in  summer  and  in  winter,  172; 
their  relation  to  fireflies,  4,  108; 
geometry  of,  402;  playing  bo-peep, 
5,  499;  bread  and  cheese,  504; 
compensation  for  winter,  621;  seen 
by  day.  6,  60;  from  the  astrono- 
mer's point  of  view,  7,  60,  61;  seen 
in  White  Mountains,  11,  14. 

State,  the,  an  epitome  of  the  earth,  1, 
455. 

State  of  Maine,  steamer,  9,  139. 

Statistics,  fondness  of  Americans  for, 
6,200. 

Statues,  12,  335,  408. 

Steam,  of  a  steam-engine,  3, 331,  332. 

Steamboat,  the  first  Chinese,  3,  205. 

Steamers,  river,  on  the  Penobscot,  5, 
456,  457. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


440 


INDEX 


Stellaria,  8,  336,  351,  353,  360. 
Stellaria  media.  See  Chickweed. 
Stemothserus.    See  Turtle,  musk. 
Stewart,  young,  pout's  aeut  found  by, 

12,  163,  164. 
Stoever's  "Life  of  Linnseus,"  quoted, 

3,  117.  181. 

Stone,  Witmer.  7,  74  note. 

Stone-heaps,  in  the  river,  4, 152,  221, 
222,  6,  125, 12,  268. 

Stone-maabn,  the  craft  of,  2,  491, 
492. 

Storer,  Dr.  D.  H.,  his  report  on  the 
reptiles  of  Massachusetts,  8,  394; 
quoted.  10,  382, 12,  153. 

Storer,  Dr.  H.  R.,  10,  355. 

Storm,  the  sublimity  of,  1, 217;  value 
of.  3,  323,  366,  367. 

Storms,  9,  386-389;  wet  and  dry.  3, 
446;   in  winter,  wind  after,  7,  150. 

Stow,  Beck.  See  Beck  Stow's  Swamp. 

Stow,  Cyrus,  12,  13,  95. 

Stow,  N.,  6,  31. 

Strabo,  reading,  14,  338  note. 

't  Strange  that  so  many  fickle  gods, 
as  fickle  as  the  weather,"  verse,  1, 
51. 

Stratton,  Hezekiah.  6,  95. 

Stratton  house  and  barn.  1,  429. 

Stratton  wood-lot,  deed  of,  9, -214. 

Strawberries,  wild,  manna  of  earth. 
ff,  236,  294;  deep  in  the  grass,  256; 
fruit  of  spring,  294;  in  "  New  Eng- 
land's Prospect."  7,  132, 133;  abun- 
dant in  Maine,  0,  500,  501;  early, 
13   339 

Strawbeny  Hill,  2,  466. 

Studio,  a,  at  Fairhaven,  7,  481. 

Study,  4,  351. 

Stumps,  old,  14,  212,  213. 

Sturgis,  Mrs.,  of  Plymouth,  2,  364. 

Sifccess,  no  great,  in  history,  1,  448; 
proportionate  to  average  ability, 
455. 

Succory.  2, 294;  closes  in  hot  weather, 

4,  225. 

Sucker,  1,  476,  3,  57,  4,  409,  8,  326, 
343,  372.  11,  234,  235;  dead.  3, 
417,  5,  91,  202,  203,  7,  300.  8,  296, 
297;  the  design  of  an  artist.  3, 
437,438;  gulls  and,  5,  99;  running 
up  brooks,  7,  283;  death  of,  in 
spring,  9,  298,  308.  310:  a  large. 
361;  time  of  dying,  10,  324;  a 
school,  U,  133;  taste  when  cooked, 
133 

Sucker,  black,  12,  187,  268. 


Sudbury,  inhabitants  of,  3,  3. 

Sudbury  River,  upper  reaches  of,  69 
341;  names  of  localities  on,  7,  210. 
See  aUo  Concord  River. 

Sugar-loaf,  the  name  as  applied  to 
mountains,  7,  204. 

Suicide.  10,  227,  228, 14,  307, 

Sumach,  berries  of,  2, 85,  4, 272.  273. 
8,  153,  154, 11,  297;  berries  eaten 
by  partridges,  8,  166;  fall  color  of, 
9,99. 

Sumach,  dwarf  or  mountain,  8,  296; 
berries  of.  5,  400. 12,  325. 

Sumach,  poison,  ^r  poison-dogwood 
(Rhua  venenata),  2,  128,  3,  239,  6, 
405,  7,  399,  400.  511,  8,  215,  9, 
192, 10,  27,  238,  257, 13,  324,  325; 
like  a  peach  tree,  2,  277;  winter 
aspect  of,  3,  44;  beautiful  as  Satan, 
147;  sketch  of,  8, 148;  pith  of,  215, 
216. 

Sumach,  smooth,  8,  215, 11,  386, 387; 
berries  of,  6,  352.  8,  102.  153,  11, 
119;  funer«sd  aspect  of,  7,  62;  ber- 
ries eaten  by  partridges  and  mice. 
8, 102, 103;  chickadee  on.  153, 154; 
used  for  sap-spouts,  215;  pith  of, 
215;  in  autumn,  11,  201;  incrusta- 
tion on  berries  of,  14,  64.  90. 

Sumach,  staghom,  2,  349,  354,  11« 
386,  387;  autun^n  foliage  of.  238. 

Summer,  the  b^inning  of,  2,  31;  one 
long  drought.  5,  328,  329;  the  sea- 
son of  snuill  fruits,  6,  363,  364; 
imagined  during  winter,  8,  98; 
pursuit  of,  9,  164. 

Sumner,  Charles,  outrage  on,  12,  447. 

Sun,  the,  and  shadows,  1,  99,  100; 
impartiality  of,  159;  and  eternal 
youth,  206;  preferable  to  fire,  2, 
87;  the  most  beautiful  thing  in 
nature.  474;  followed  by  all  na- 
ture, 3,  459;  seen  as  a  moon,  4,  29; 
a  fuller  moon,  94;  nature's  central 
fire,  ff,  38;  pear-shaped,  257,  258; 
as  a  traveller,  332.  484;  reflections 
of.  7,  499. 

Sunday,  unholiness  of,  1,  362. 

Sun-dogs,  12,  115. 

Sunflower,  common  wild  {HelianthuB 
annuua),  4,  271. 

Sunflower,  cultivated,  ff,  355,  417; 
gathered  like  pumpkins,  2,  458. 

Sunflower,  small  rough  {Helianthu9 
divancatu8),4,  271.  5,  340. 

Sunflowers  {Helianthua),  8,  461,  463; 
variety  in  leaves  of,  11,  94. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


441 


Sunlight,  chemical  changes  effected 
by,  3«  165;  checkering  the  ground 
in  the  woods,  287;  compared 
with  moonlight,  372;  tanning 
power  of,  3,  413, 414;  imagined  as 
moonlight,  7,  50;  yellower  in  Feb- 
ruary, 193;  on  snow,  8,  178;  pen- 
etrating a  wood,  10»  159,  160;  re- 
flected from  pines,  11,  343,  344;  on 
withered  pastures,  13,  230. 

Sunrise,  and  the  life  of  man,  1,  158, 
159;  descriptions  of,  2,  486,  487, 4, 
45, 183, 6,  295,  296;  rays  before,  2, 
602;  on  Wachusett  Mountain,  7, 
65;  purple  light  at,  11,  233;  on 
Mt.  Monadnock,  14,  22,  23. 

Sunset,  a  lurid,  2,  51;  aspirations 
prompted  by,  108;  descriptions 
of,  140,  3,  128-130,  158,  159,  221, 
4,  248-250,  271,  272,  287.  288, 
401,  5,  197.  306,  333. 6,  30,  391,  7, 
57,  10,  132-134,  235-237,  11,  166, 
13,  44;  after  rain,  2,  295,  296, 
.  382, 383;  our  misuse  of  the  hour  of, 
438;  a  permanent  description  of, 
3,  148;  seen  from  a  seat  in  the 
9now,  152;  like  the  face  of  a  dying 
man,  159;  rarely  cloudless,  159; 
winter  and  summer,  164;  the 
drama  of,  179;  the  cynosure  of  all 
eyes,  247;  November,  5,  527,  11, 
304,  331:  tints  of,  in  winter,  6,  46; 
a  first  autumnal,  7, 19, 20;  through 
haze,  50,  51;  mid-afternoon,  82; 
'  purple  light  at,  208, 11,  226;  colors 
of,  in  snow,  8,  103;  a  passageway 
to  Elysium,  9,  173;  the  pink  light 
of  the  winter,  11,  395,  396;  north- 
erly and  southerly  extension  of, 
13, 110,  111;  in  the  sky  of  ice,  141, 
142;  seen  from  Walden,  14,  65,  66; 
golden,  108.  See  also  Afterglow. 

iSuushine,  holiness  of,  1,  202. 

Superstition,  2,  380;  nearness  of,  to 
truth,  4,  158;  religious,  5,  2*23;  a 
fungus,  274. 

Surfaces,  perception  of,  4,  312,  313. 

Surveying,  9, 205;  running  a  line,  213; 
ignorant  land-owners,  213.  214; 
discoveries  made  in,  10,  221;  its 
effect  on  the  imagination,  233,  234. 

Suspenders,  mode  of  wearing,  8,  396. 

Suspicion.  1,  52;  its  effect  on  men, 
178;  breeds  suspected  offense,  448. 

Swain,  Mr.,  of  New  Bedford,  8,  393. 

Swallow,  bank,  2,  49,  8,  414;  nest- 
ing-boles of,  6,  295,  8,  325,  9,  153. 


10,  191,  254,  257,  507;  killed  in  a 
storm,  7,  439;  a  colony  of,  8,  325; 
notes  of,  325,  414,  10,  433;  kiUed 
by  rain,  8,  332.  333;  description 
and  weight  of,  333,  334. 

Swallow,  bam,  6,  392;  preparation 
for  migration,  486;  in  circling  flight, 
7,  340,  341;  nest  of,  430;  migrat- 
ing, 448-450;  notes  of,  8,  400, 10, 
433;  a  black.  9,  412;  a  brood  of 
young,  12,  236. 

Swallow,  chimney,  circling  of,  5,  162; 
large  flock  of,  7,  411;  flight  of,  450, 
451;  nest  of,  8,  432,  433,  9,  17; 
nocturnal  habits  of,  12,  258. 

Swallow,  Chinese  cb'ff,  1,  69;  edible 
nests  of,  8,  433, 9,  413. 

Swallow,  cliff  or  republican,  7,  382; 
feeding  young,  10,  173,  174. 

Swallow,  white-bellied,  4,  93,  8,  258, 
12,143:  nest  of,  7,  421. 

Swallows,  2,  395;  the  fish  of  the  air, 
339;  perching  on  tel^raph-wires, 
4,  93,  219,  220;  in  the  rain,  7,  423; 
a  great  number  of,  8,  320;  socia- 
bility of,  330;  Pratt's  story  of,  433; 
hundreds  over  the  river,  10,  432, 
433;  confidence  of,  433. 

Swamp-apple,  as  food,  8,  350.  See 
also  Andromeda,  panicled. 

Swamp-pink,  4,  120,  126. 6,  208,  297; 
buds  of,  4,  419,  5,  461;  apples  on, 
249;   leafing  of.  6,  281. 

Swamps,  the  luxury  of  standing  in  a 
swamp,  1,  141,  142;  variety  of  life 
in,  2,  13-15;  compared  to  cities, 
47;  the  time  to  visit  a  swamp,  4, 
231;  a  blueberry  swamp,  280,  281; 
a  temple,  449;  v^etation  of  a 
swamp.  6,  467,  468,  10,  196,  197; 
in  winter,  8,  99, 100;  remoteness  of, 
9, 40, 42;  the  formation  of  a  swamp, 
394;  cedars  buried  in,  420;  the  fill- 
ing up  of  a  swamp,  10,  272;  buried 
growths  in  a  swamp,  11,  241. 

Swan,  wild,  William  Wood  on.  7,  136; 
in  Texas,  209;  in  Carver,  Mass., 
484. 

Sweden,  names  in.  3,  117. 

Sweet-briar.  4, 132.  174,  6,  154,  273, 
289.  8,  401;  hips  of,  5,  481,  483. 9, 
104;  a  new  varietj'  of,  7,  8;  leafing 
of.  366. 

Sweet-fern,  withered  leaves  of,  7,  84, 

11,  344;  scent  of,  8,  376;  fruit  of, 
13,  44;  groves  of,  90;  manner  of 
growing,  203. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


442 


INDEX 


Sweet-gale,  3, 482, 13, 17;  fruit  of,  2, 
406;  flowers  of,  6,  7,  124,  7,  329, 
13«  51 ;  rising  out  of  ice,  6>  86;  man- 
ner of  growth  of,  153;  seeds  of,  7, 
142,  158. 159,  304;  buds  of,  13,  68. 

Swimming,  an  experiment  in,  5,  363; 
taught  with  a  machine,  14,  111. 

Swisshelm,  Mrs.  Jane,  9,  101. 

Sylvia  Americana.  See  Warblo",  blue 
yellow-backed. 

Sylvia  macvloaa.  See  Warbler,  black 
and  yellow. 

Sylvia  pardalina.  See  Warbler,  Oan- 
ada. 

Sylvia  striata.  See  Warbler,  black- 
poU. 

Sjrmpathy,  occasion  for  and  value  of, 

I,  189;  compared  with  apprecia- 
tion, 8,  242;  essential  to  love,  11, 
342;  dbraining  of  vitality  through, 
438;  knowledge  by,  451,  452. 

"  Sympathy,"  verse,  1,  80. 

Talent,  1,  215;  compared  to  charac- 
ter, 352. 

Talk,  vanity  of,  1,  321;  palaver,  4, 
47. 

Talking,  universal  phenomenon,  1, 
460-462. 

"Tall  Ambrosia,"  verse,  2,  59. 

Tanager,  scarlet,  10,  437,  438.  13, 
312;  song  of,  4,  204, 6,  363. 7,  384, 

II,  50;  the  red-wing  reversed,  5, 
175;  the  tropical,  187;  a  morsel  of 
Brazil,  199;  male  and  female,  7, 
394;  nest  of.  417,  418.  10,  505, 
506;  origin  of  Farmer's  name  for, 
0,459. 

Tangents,  to  the  earth's  surface,  2, 
422. 

Tansy,  2,  424,  4,  246,  7,  185;  asso- 
ciated with  funerals,  2,  432;  re- 
sists frost,  3,  32;  dry  stems  of, 
188,  189;  prevailing  yellow. flower, 
5,  348;  derivation  of  name,  13, 
10.     . 

Tappan,  William,  walks  with,  6,  49, 
50,  60,  61;  on  destruction  of  fowls 
by  owls,  60;  gait  of,  60;  speech  of, 
60,  61;  out  in  the  snow  with,  7, 
123-126;  skating  with,  165-169. 

Tarbell,  of  Concord,  his  house.  3,  29; 
character  of,  8,  314. 

Tarbell's  HilLs,  6,  425. 

Tarbell's  Swamp,  2,  395,  396. 

Target-weed,  11,  160. 

Tastes,  diversity  of,  2,  9. 


Tattler,  solitary,  or  oolitary  sand- 
piper (TotaniM  eolitariua),  7,  392, 
458,  459, 11,  185,  13,  308, 14,  54. 

Taunton.  Indian  village  in,  1,  454. 

Tawny,  12,  81,  83. 

Tea,  use  of.  4,  417. 

Tea-kettle,  the,  rattling  of,  1,  243; 
invention  of,  7,  484. 

Teal,  blue-winged,  4,  333,  7,  485. 

Teal,  treen-winged,  0,  300. 

Teamster,  the,  1,  76. 

Tears,  physical  phenomena,  3,  106. 

Tel^raph,  the,  laborers  at  work  on, 

2,  428;  the  first  message  through 
Concord  over,  442.  See  aUo  Cable. 

Telegraph  harp,  the,  as  the  sound  of 
a  far-off  glorious  life,  2,  450;  a 
remind^'  of  the  higher  life,  496- 
498;  vibrating  through  the  posts, 

3,  11-14;  a  tenth  Muse,  12;  music 
and  poetry  in,  174,  175;  intoxi- 
cating strains  of,  219;  efifect  of,  on 
the  heart,  224;  a  new  Orpheus, 
235,  236;  played  by  the  wind,  247, 
248;  a  reminder  of  Greece,  319; 
origin  of  music  of.  332;  prophecies 
of,  342;  voice  of,  compared  with 
man's,  349;  compared  to  poet's 
lyre,  4,  206;  vibrations  of,  402; 
autumn  strains  of,  410;  immortal 
message  of,  458,  459;  music  of, 
473,  6,  65;  played  by  west  winds, 
43;  an  American  lyre.  6,  121. 

Telegraph-posts,  vibration  of  the 
wires  heard  through,  3,  11-14;  as 
material  for  harps.  37. 

Telegraph  station,  at  Highland  Light, 
9,  446,  447. 

Telegraph-wire,  provides  perches  for 
birds,  4,  93;  manufacture  of,  7, 101. 

Telescopes,  7,  61,  8,  363;  Perea 
Blood's  telescope,  2,  288;  T.  buys 
a  telescope,  6,  166;  the  noaking  of, 
166,  167.  See  also  Glass  and  Spy- 
glass. 

TeU.  William.  1,  196. 

"Tell  me,  ye  wise  ones,  if  ye  can," 
verse,  1,  373. 

Telltale.   See  Yellow-1^. 

Temperament,  enthusiasm  changed 
into,  3,  86. 

Temperate  zone,  favorable  to  growth 
of  man,  12,  334,  335. 

Temple,  of  Concord,  raising  tobacco, 
12,  328,  329,  340  note. 

Teneriffe,  Peak  of,  11,  48  note. 

Tent,  T.'s  first  aight  in  a,  1, 147. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


443 


Tephrosia,  2,  286.  4,  206;  colors  of, 

6,  304,  6,  366;  beauty  of.  9,  475. 
Terraces,  natural,  6,  443. 
Terrapin,  8,  394.  9,  484. 
Text-books.  6,  130. 
Thales,  1,  163. 

Thalictrum  anemonoidca.    See  Anem- 
one, rue. 
Thalictrum  Comuti.      See  Meadow- 
rue,  tall. 
Thalictrum  dioicum.  5ee  Meadow-rue, 

early. 
Thamyris,  1,  392.  393. 
1  hatcher,  Mr.,  of  Bangor,  9,  485,  487 

and  note.  501-503. 
Thatcher,  George,  3,  48. 
Thaw,  compared  with  Thor,  3,  236; 

after  a  blue  atmosphere,  7,   186; 

a  January.  11,  414.  415. 
"Thaw,  The."  verse.  1,  71. 
".Th'  ambrosia  of  the  Gods  's  a  weed 

on  earth,"  verse,  2»  59. 
'.The   deeds   of   king   and   meanest 

hedger,"  verse,  1,  72 
"The  earth  which  seems  so  barren 

once  gave  birth,"  verse,  1,  390. 
The  eastern  mail  comes  lumbering 

in,"  verse,  1,  72. 
"The   loudest    sound   that    burdens 

here  the  breeze,"  verse,  1,  51. 
•'The  man  of  wild  habits,"  verse,  2, 

54. 
"The  needles  of  the  pine,"  verse,  1, 

259. 
".The  school-boy  loitered  on  his  way 

to  school,"  verse,  1,  49. 
Thebes,  1,  392;    vulgarity  of,  4,  153. 
Theophrastus.  13,  133;  father  of  bot- 
any. 3,  118;   on  the  signs  of  the 

weather.  13,  240. 
"There  is  health  in  thy  gray  wing," 

verse,  1,  471. 
Therien,  Alek,  2,  88, 7,  172,  186,  299; 

a  true  Homeric  boor.  1,  365,  366; 

talks  with.  367.  7,  497.  498.  8,  40. 

271;  on  chickadees,  1,  399, 6,  110; 

on  ideas.  3,  116,  117;  observations 

of,  on  the  world,  6,  23.  24;  his  view 

of  life.  35,  36;    and  checkerberry- 

tea.  12,  455. 
"They  who  prepare  my  evening  meal 

below."  verse.  1,  243. 
Thimble-berries.  2,  312.  8,  409,  410. 
Thimble-berry,    leaves    of,    6,    127; 

bloom  on  the  shoots  of,  9,  146, 10, 

160,  161. 
Thinker,  the,  10, 404, 405. 


lliistle,  every  child  eager  to  oluteh 
once,  2,  65;  beaded  with  rain- 
drops, 3,  435,  436;  beloved  of 
bumblebees  and  goldfinches,  12, 
316;  seeds  in  a  silk-lined  cradle, 
14,  174.  175. 

Thistle,  Canada,  visited  by  the  gold- 
finch, 6,  440. 

Thistle,  pasture,  2,  389,  12,  316; 
seeds  of,  3,  57, 6,  437;  beaded  with 
rain-drops,  3,  442. 

Thistle-down,  4, 332;  sermon  preached 
by,  336;  flight  of,  11,  185,  186; 
barren,  332,  333;  sailing  over  Mo- 
nadnock,  14,  50;  sailing  over  water, 
63,64. 

Thomas,  the  cat.  9,  245. 

Thomas,  Lord  Chancellor,  1,  210. 

Thompson,  Shubael,  7,  475. 

Thompson.  Zadock.  his  History  of 
Vermont.  8,  366.  9,  63.  73. 

Thomson,  James,  1,  467;  his  "Sea- 
sons" quoted,  468. 

Thoreau.  Marie  Le  Gallajs,  great- 
grandmother  of  H.  D.  T.,  death  of, 
7,  325. 

Thoreau.  CjTithia  Dunbar,  motho* 
of  H.  D.  T.,  11,  238;  a  sail  with,  6, 
444;  back  from  Wachusett,  7,  43; 
aids  T.  in  recollections  of  his  life,  8, 
64;  attempts  to  milk  the  cow,  93; 
her  reminiscences  of  H.  D.  T.'s 
childhood,  94;  her  ruflf  stolen  by  a 
robin,  104;  her  memory  of  the  Cold 
Friday,  9,  213;  her  account  of 
smnmOT  nights  in  the  house  on  the 
Virginia  Road ,  381 ;  making  her  son 
John's  clothes,  410;  making  pock- 
ets out  of  fire-bags,  10,  227. 

Thoreau,  Elizabeth  Orrock,  aunt  of 
H.  D.  T.,  7,  325, 10,  252,  275. 

Thoreau,  Henry  David,  journey  to 
Maine.  May  3-17,  1838,  1,  46-49; 
Ipses  a  tooth.  56;  voyage  on  the 
Concord  and  Merrimack  Rivers 
and  walk  to  Mt.  Washington.  Aug. 
31-Sept.  13.  1839,  88-92,  136-138, 
144. 145.  439-443;  divine  remuner- 
ation in  a  dream.  177;  clothing  and 
diet,  201,  202;  ill  with  bronchitis, 
214;  heaving  manure,  250,  251; 
at  the  university  library.  287; 
his  yearning  toward  wildness,  296; 
his  redeeming  qualities.  296;  his 
music-box.  317  note;  goes  to  Wal- 
den  to  live,  July  5. 1845. 361;  in  the 
Caatskills,  361;    reading  a  novel. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


444 


INDEX 


375;  a  visit  to  Walden  as  a  child, 
380;  leaves  the  Walden  house  on 
account  of  plastering  and  returns 
in  three  weeks,  387;  making  bread, 
430,  431;  as  a  town  officer,  434- 
436;  visits  Haverhill  and  the  Due- 
tin  house.  May  12,  1850.^  7,  8; 
sets  fire  to  the  woods,  21-26;  goes 
to  Fire  Island  to  search  for  Mar- 
garet Fuller's  remains,  July.  1850, 
43  note;  at  Patchogue,  L.  I.,  49- 
51,  78-80;  practice  work  of.  52 
note;  the  Canadian  excursion, 
Sept.  25-Oct.  4,  1850,  73-77,  417. 
418;  visits  the  Clinton  gingham- 
mills,  134-136;  his  love  of  chastity, 
186;  gets  false  teeth,  194;  taking 
etheiu  194;  humility  of,  285,  286; 
his  thoughts  on  reaching  the  age 
of  thirty-four,  316.  317;  considers 
embracing  huckleberry-picking  as 
a  profession,  319;  excursion  to 
Clark's  Island  and  Plymouth  along 
the  South  Shore,  July  25-Aug.  1, 

1851,  341-367;  goes  mackerel-fish- 
ing, 351-353;  fears  he  is  becoming 
too  scientific,  406;  perambulating 
the  bounds,  498,  504,  505,^  3-5; 
aids  a  fugitive  slave,  37.  38;  goes 
to  an  evening  party,  115;  his  cold- 
ness, 147-149;  a  misundo^tanding 
with  a  friend,  167, 168;  shames  im- 
pudent persons,  199,  200;  why  he 
left  the  woods.  214,  215;  invited 
to  read  his  papers  to  a  friend,  216; 
the  use  of  his  Journal,  217;  his 
failures  and  ofifenses,  293;  hypo- 
thetical Norse  ancestry  of,  304, 305; 
a  visit  in   Plymouth,  May  22-24. 

1852,  f,  68-70;  refuses  to  engage 
in  an  unprofitalsle  occupation,  252. 
253;  excursion  to  Peterboro  and 
Monadnock,  Sept.  6  and  7.  1S52, 
342-347;  receives  a  circular  from 
the  secretary  of  the  Association  for 
the  Advancement  of  Science,  5«  4; 
describes  himself  as  a  transoenden- 
taUst,4,5;  a  water-owner,  45:  men's 
use  of,  46;  a  visit  in  Haverhill,  109- 
115;  conducting  huckleberry  par- 
ties, 358  note;  comforting  a  troubled 
child,  359  note;  the  second  excur- 
sion to  the  Maine  woods,  Sept.  13- 
27,  1853,  424-433;  carries  a  sub- 
scription paper  for  a  charitable  ob- 
ject, 438,  439;  receives  and  stores 
the  unsold  remainder  of  his  first 


book,  Dct.  28,  1853.  459.  460;  a 
proposed  speculation  in  cranberries, 
512;  paying  for  the  "Week,"  512; 
settles  the  account  with  ^  his  pub- 
lishers, 521;  surveying,  B«  20,21; 
not  employed  as  a  lecturer,  21;  gets 
a  Christmas-tree  for  the  town,  22, 
24.  25;  tempted  to  certain  licenses 
of  speech  by  a  companion,  165; 
buys  a  telescope.  Mar.  13,  1854, 
166,  167;  criticising  his  composi- 
tions, 190;  receives  a  specimen 
copy  of  "  Walden,"  419;  "  Walden  " 
published,  Aug.  9.  1854,  429;  his 
yearning  for  solitude,  439;  hia 
faults  as  a  writer.^,  7  note.  8  note; 
sends  Fields  copies  of  the  "Week," 
8  note;  thinks  of  writing  lectures 
and  going  abroad  to  read  them,  46; 
the  advantages  of  his  obscurity  and 
poverty,  46*  goes  to  Plymouth  to 
lecture  and  survey,  62,  63;  an 
excursion  to  Wachusett  Mountain, 
64-66;    to  Philadelphia,  Nov.  20, 

1854,  .72-75;  calls  on  Greeley  in 
New  York,  76;  lecturing  in  Provi- 
dence, 79;  his  lecturing,  79,  80;* 
visits  Daniel  Ricketson  in  New 
Bedford,  Dec.  25  and  26,  1854,  89- 
91;  a  trip  to  Nantucket,  91-97; 
lectures  in  Worcester.  Jan.  4,  1855, 
99,  100;  walks  to  Quinsigamond 
Pond  via  Quinsigamond  Village, 
100-102;  climbing  trees,  362.  363; 
to  Provincetown  and  Highland 
Light  and  back  with  Chanuing. 
July  4-18,  1855,  431-443;  goe?  to 
the  circus,  461;  visits  Ricketson  in 
New    Bedford.    Sept.    29-Oct.    5. 

1855.  463-482;  to  the  Middlebor- 
ough  ponds,  465-468,  471-479; 
Ricketson  drives  him  to  Plymouth. 
483,  484;  returns  to  Concord,  484; 
his  lack  of  ssrmpathy  with  his  neigh- 
bors, 527;  recalls  the  houses  and 
towns  in  which  he  has  I'ved  and 
some  events  of  his  life,/S»  64r-67; 
stories  of  his  childhood.  93.  94;  his 
journal.  134;  consciousness  under 
ether,  142;  Jones  ancestry  of,  187, 
188;  with  Brown  and  Blake  in 
Worcester.  377-382;  accompanies 
Ricketson  back  to  New  Bedford, 
June  23.  1856,  384;  to  the  Middle- 
borough  ponds.  385,  386.  395-397; 
to  Sconticut  Neck,  388-392;  to 
Naushon,  392,  393;  returns  to  Con- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


445 


cord,  398;  chasing  and  capturing  a 
runaway  pig,  451-456;  spends  a 
successful  afternoon  in  a  cranberry 
swamp,  fit  3&-41;  excursion  to 
Brattleboro,  Vt.,  and  to  Alcott's 
at  Walpole,  N.  H.,  Sept.  5-12, 
1856,  61-80;  a  dextrous  barberry- 
picker,  85;  sets  out  for  Eagleswood, 
Perth  Amboy,  N.  J.,  Oct.  24,  1856, 
133;  at  Bamum's  Museum  in  New 
York,  133,  134;  visit  at  Eagles- 
wood,  134-139;  buying  a  pair  of 
boots,  156;  his  botanical  studies, 
156-158;  lectures  at  Amherst,  N.  H. . 
186-189;  his  poor  success  as  a 
lecturer,  214,  215;  finds  good  so- 
ciety in  solitary  woodland  walks, 
215, 216;  lectures  iu  Fitchburg.235. 
236;  loses  a  friend,  249, 250;  dines 
with  Agassis  at  Emerson's,  298 
299;  visits  Ricketson  again,  Apr. 
2-15.  1875,  315-330;  a  member  of 
the  "Walden  Pond  Society."  331; 
singing  "Tom  Bowling,*'  393  and 
note;  sets  out  for  Cape  Cod,  June 
12,  1857  413;  at  B.  Marston  Wat- 
son's in  Plymouth,  414,  415;  visits 
Clark's  Island.  415-419;  in  Ply- 
mouth again,  419,  420;  down  the 
Cape  on  foot.  420-440;  at  High- 
land Light,  441-449;  the  walk  to 
Provincetown,  450-452;  a  night  in 
Provincetown,  452-454;  by  steam- 
er to  Boston,  454,  455;  the  third 
excursion  to  the  Maine  woods,  July 
2()-Aug.  7,  1857,  484-503;  his  va- 
ried employments  when  living  at 
Walden,  10,  61-63;  his  dream 
mountain.  141-144;  lectu|-es  in 
Lynn,  243;  visits  Nahant  and 
drives  about  Lynn,  244-247;  to 
Worcester  on  the  way  to  New  York, 
May  22,  1858,  440;  walks  to  Quin- 
sigamond  Pond  with  Blake,  Brown , 
and  Rogers,  440-442;  toNewYftrk, 
442,  443;  visits  William  Emer- 
son on  States  Island,  443;  returns 
to  Concord,  443;  excursion  to  Mt. 
Monadnock  with  H.  G.  O.  Blake, 
June  2-4,  1858,  452-480;  White 
Mountain  excursion  with  Edward 
Hoar,  July  2-19,  1858,  .tl»  3-62; 
meets  Blake  and  Brown  on  Mt. 
Washington,  29;  sprains  his  ankle, 
32;  a  Cape  Ann  excursion,  Sept. 
21-24,  1858,  170-180;  loses  his 
father,  435;  walks  about  Lynn,  X2, 


164, 165;  studies  the  physiography 
of  Concord  River,  summer  of  1859, 
219  and  note;  his  first  address 
on  John  Brown,  400  note;  a  visit 
from  Ricketson,  449  note;  a  mem- 
ber of  a  committee  to  ask  liberty  of 
the  selectmen  to  have  the  town  bell 
tolled  on  John  Brown's  death,  457; 
assists  one  of  John  Brown's  men  on 
his  way  to  Canada,  ^,  3  note,  4; 
Monadnock  excursion  with  Chan- 
ning,  Aug.  4-9,  1860,  t*,  8-52; 
takes  the  cold  that  results  in  his 
last  illness,  Dec.  3.  1860.  290  note; 
his  journey  to  Minnesota.  May, 
1861,   339,    340. 

Thoreau,  Jane,  aunt  of  H.  D.  T..  5, 
58,  11,  436;  birth  of,  11,  381. 

Thoreau,  Jennie  Bums,  grandmother 
of  H.  D.  T.,  10,  252. 

Thoreau,  John,  brother  of  H.  D.  T., 
2,  12;  death  of,  1,  321  note. 

Thoreau,  John,  father  of  H.  D.  T.,  2, 
81;  enumerates  old  Concord  houses, 

7,  505,  506;  some  biographical 
notes  of,  8,  64-66;  disastrous  re- 
sults of  his  attempt  to  milk  the  cow, 
93;  dispute  with,  on  the  use  of 
making  maple  sugar,  217;  and  a 
lost  pig,  451;  his  reminiscences  of 
his  father,  9,  132,  133;  on  the  for- 
mer price  of  wood,  271;  birthplace 
of,  11,  381;  death  of,  435;  bio- 
graphical comment  on.  43&-437. 

Thoreau,  John,  grandfather  of  H.  D. 
T.,  a  privateersman,  5,  242,  243; 
death  of,  7,  325,  9,  132;  his  son's 
reminiscences  of,  132,  133:  Mrs. 
William  Monroe's  recollections  of, 

10,  252,  278;  a  religious  man,  278. 
Thoreau,  Maria,  aunt  of  H.  D.  T., 

4,  462,  5,  58;  and  old  family  let- 
ters. 7,  325-327. 

Thoreau,  Peter,  great-uncle  of  H.  D. 
T.,  letters  from.  7,  325-327. 

"Thoreau,  Peter,  on  Book-keeping,'* 
7,434. 

Thoreau,  Sophia,  sister  of  H.  D.  T., 

8,  403.  9,  142,  455,  10,  363,  489, 

11,  149;  her  herbarium,  4,  360; 
up  Assabet  with.  A,  176.  8,  24,  9, 
105;  to  Nawshawtuct  with,  A, 
319;  back  from  Wachusett,  7,  43; 
to  Conantum  with,  344;  barberry- 
ing  with.  460;  a  letter  from.  8, 
377;  to  Hermitage  Woods  with, 
378;  to    Shrewsbury    with,    380; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


446 


INDEX 


on  her  brother's  dusty  furniture. 
9,  83;  berrying,  108;  tells  of  the 
cat's  expoience  with  a  mouse  and 
a  cock,  154,  155;  talks  with  Mrs. 
Monroe,  10,  252;  her  collection  of 
acorns  14,  149.  154.  214,  215. 

Thoreau  &  Hayse.  firm  of,  7,  328. 

Thorer  of  Steige,  4,  410. 

Thorer  the  Dog-footed,  3,  304. 

Thormod,3,  191,  192. 

Thom,  4,  368,  5,  130.  177.  9,  396. 
397;  large  thorn  trees.  10,  22,  13, 
18;  haws  of,  10, 35;  a  bush  likened 
to  smoke,  11,  294. 

Thorn,  cockspur  {Cratcegus  Crus- 
GaUi),  5,  192.  200. 

Thorn,  scarlet  iCratiefjua  eoeeined). 
5,  224,  419;  haws  of,  12,  324. 

Thornton  (N.  H.).l,  91. 

Thornton.  James,  9,  316.  317. 

"Thou  drifting  meadow  of  the  air," 
verse,  1,  457. 

Thought,  expansiveness  of,  1,  242; 
superior  to  expression.  344;  the 
streams  of,  3,  232;  nearly  of  one 
temperature,  232;  ideas  the  fishes 
of,  232;  pitched  on  a  high  key,  4, 
19;  superiority  of,  to  architecture, 
152;  should  be  accomplished  sa- 
credly, 263;  pursuit  of,  compared 
to  botanizing,  289;  free-masonry 
of,  289,  290;  part  of  the  meaning 
of  the  world,  410;  thaws  in,  6,  89; 
influence  of  the  river  on,  395; 
wealth  of,  9,  350;  more  valuable 
than  history,  10,  46;  chewing  the 
cud  of,  11,  89;  the  harvest  of,  130, 
312;  justice  of  collective,  438. 

Thoughts,  chained  by  common  basis, 
1,  346,  347;  and  inert  intellect, 
3,  150;  better  than  expressions, 
157;  personality  of,  217;  com- 
pared with  green-briar  leaves,  7, 
27;  food  for  walkers,  521;  early 
morning,  10,  141;  rightly  dealt 
with,  404,  405;  subconscious,  12. 
155,  13,  238;  running  in  ruts,  12, 
347;  in  cultivated  and  unculti- 
vated fields,  395;  fragrant,  399, 
400;  corresponding  to  the  thinker. 
13,  69,  70;  the  most  valuable, 
170. 

Thrasher,  brown,  4,  64,  6,  261,  7, 
387,  8,  366;  notes  of,  4,  11,  59.  65, 
89,  6,  119.  124,  255, 6,  489,  7,  373, 
376,  377.  8,  318,  319, 12,  179;  nest 
of,  6,  286,  301,  6,  347,  7,  392,  8, 


415.  9w408;  the  first  in  spring.  8, 
318,  319;  nest  and  eggs  of,  8,  366; 
nest  and  young  of,  13,  360;  favor- 
ite localities  of,  364. 

Thrush,  wild  song  of  the,  4,  263;  an 
unidentified,  10,  369;  nest  and 
eggs  of  an  unidentified,  504. 

Thrush,  golden-crowned.  See  Oven- 
bird. 

Thrush,  hermit,  4,  68,  6,  201  and 
note,  221,  222,  225,  7, 356,  8,  304, 
10,  118,  119,  U,  366:  tong  of, 
6,  225  note,  7,  325  and  note;  found 
near  New  Bedford.  7,  463;  egg  of, 
9,  413;  nest  of.  10,  505. 

Thrush,  Wilson's.    See  Veery. 

Thrush,  wood,  1,  171,  4,  68. 12,  147, 
14,  33;  song  of.  2,  10,  19,  269.  270. 
331,  388.  3,  486.  4,  5.  130,  190, 
6,  169.  243,  254,  255.  292,  293.  6, 
39,  225,  7,  394,  395.  8,  384,  10, 

412,  11,  5;  lover  of  the  pines,  2, 
313;  as  a  ventriloquist.  3,  486; 
nest  and  eggs  of,  8,  379,  380,  9, 

413,  10,  500,  501,  11,  66,  67,  91; 
aloofness  of,  10,  460. 

"Thunderbolt,"  a  Scotch  hif^way- 
man,  9,  63. 

Thunder-clouds,  likened  to  fireflies, 
4,129. 

Thunder-showers,  descriptions  of,  4, 
111,6,  371. 

Thunder-storms,  signal  guns  to  hu- 
manity, 4,  127,  128;  fear  of,  157, 
158;  a  threatened  storm,  6,  162; 
and  young  foliage.  171;  a  heavy 
storm,  7,  16,  17;  enjojrment  of. 
8,  289;  the  voice  of  Nature.  349; 
compared    to    other    storms,    10, 

414,  415. 

Thurston,  Rev.  Mr.,  7,  456. 

Tides,  effect  of,  on  distribution  of 
sand-bars,  2,  45;  dependence  of 
sailors    on,    360;  spring  and  neap, 

ar,9. 

Tierra  del  Fuego,  manners  and  cus- 
toms of  inhabitants  of,  2,  245- 
247;  scale  of  civilization  in.  263. 

Time,  spent  in  recording  thoughts, 
3,  279;  mellowing  process  of,  11, 
446. 

Times  and  seasons,  12,  159,  160. 

Titian,  landscapes  of,  1,  167. 

Titlark.  6,  473  note.  11,  265  note. 

Titmouse.   See  Chickadee. 

"To  a  Marsh  Hawk  in  Spring,"  verse, 
1,  471. 


Digitized  by  V3OOQ IC 


INDEX 


447 


Toad  (called  by  T.  for  a  time  dream 
frog),  4,  28,  29,  70.  8,  285.  286. 
10,  415;  notes  of,  2,  206,  4,  15,  21, 
24,  25,  27,  29,  31.  38,  6,  195,  196, 
198,  453,  7,  418,  8,  308,  309,  334, 
353,  354,  385, 9,  319.  349.  354,  355, 
10,  391,  392.  471.  472,  485,  551, 13, 
235,  236,  241,  242,  292,  325;  mid- 
summer night's  dream  of,  2,  206; 
rescued  from  a  snake,  423;  bub- 
bling of,  4,  15;  its  appearance 
when  trillhig,  24,  25;  eyes  of.  34; 
walks  of,  223;  in  sandy  fields.  7, 
435;  a  buried  toad,  8, 300;  a  frozen 
toad,  0,  315;  mating,  354,  355; 
slow  growth  of,  366;  retreats  of, 
10,  504;  itP  love  of  warmth.  13, 
330,  335;  excrement  of,  356;  hole 
of.  in  the  ground,  381. 

Toad,  spade-foot  (Scaphioptu  solita- 
riua),  9,  353  note,  413. 

Toad-spawn,  4,  63,  6,  112,  10,  407, 
408,  11,  141;  on  Mt.  Monadnock, 
10,  467. 

Toadstools,  9, 9, 14,  90;  an  enormous 
toadstool,  6,  270-275;  a  great 
toadstool,  364;  colors  of.  366;  wart- 
ed,  7,  526;  parasol,  8,  435;  domes 
of,  464;  towers  and  wheels,  467; 
eat«n  by  turtles,  467;  food  of  a 
squirrel,  10,  97,  98;  light-orange, 
14,  96.   See  aUo  Fungi. 

Tobacco,  first  use  of,  2,  221;  raised 
in  Concord,  12,  328,  329,  340  and 
note;  as  a  symbol,  341. 

Tobacco-pipe.  See  Indian-pipe. 

Toby,  Jonathan,  7,  466. 

"Tom  Bowling,"  T.'s  favorite  song, 
9,  393  and  note. 

Tooke,  John  Home,  quoted,  14,  311. 

Tooth,  loss  of  a,  1,  56 

Topsell,  Edward,  his  "History  of 
Four-footed  Beasts,'.'  translated 
from  Gesner.  13,  149-153.  177. 

Torfaeus*  History  of  Norway,  2,  169. 

Tornado,  a  lecture  on  the,  3,  278. 

Torrey,  Dr.  John,  quoted,  12,  207, 
252,  263. 

Tortoise,  a  European  {Terrapene 
EuropcBo),  and  the  air-bags  of  fish, 
10,486. 

Tortoise,  Blanding'd  (Ciatuda  Blan- 
dingii  or  Emys  meleagris),  6,  385, 
450,  451,  9,  299,  10,  445-447.  12, 
43. 

Tortoise,  box  {CUtuda  Carolina), 
droppings    of,    7,    441;  the    first 


found  in  Concord,  8,  338,  339,  341, 
342;  a  dead  one  found  in  Concord, 
417,  418;  protected  against  foxes, 
10,  429;  crushed  by  a  wheel,  13, 
412.413. 

Tortoise,  mud  {Kinoatemon  Penn- 
aylvanicum) ,  9,  484,  485. 

Tortoise,    painted    {Emya   picta)\  4, 

8.  9,  97,  6,  122,  510,  7,  49,  8,  13, 
283,  303.  308, 9,  307,  308, 12,  102; 
young  of,  run  over,  4,  59;  marked 
for  concealment,  162;  excavating 
and  laying  eggs,  5,  250.  255, 6,  330, 
7,  425-428,  8,  374,  375,  10,  489, 
490,  499,  505,  12,  200.  13,  368; 
shedding  scales,  5,  143. 7,  452,  485, 
486;  moving  about  under  the  ice, 

6,  6,  10,  218.  222;  methods  of,  in 
fighting,  6,  249;  young,  349.  350. 

7,  327,  8,  303,  10,  420;  inertness 
of,  7,  268;  eating  a  minnow,  454; 
a  broken  shell  of,  493-497;  colors 
of  the  shell,  495;  eggs  of,  8,  418, 
10,  491;  hatching  of,  9,  31-33; 
with  fresh  scales,  58;  Agassiz  on 
breeding  of,  299;  in  March,  309; 
wariness  of,  314;  great  numbers 
of,  361;  habits  of,  10,  329,  330; 
out  eariy,  336,  337;  coupled,  380. 
381;  plates  and  scales  of,  418;  a 
last  year's,  420;  eaten  by  foxes, 
429;  in  wagon  ruts,  481;  eating 
lily  pads,  13,  310;  disembowelled 
apparently  by  a  heron,  345,  346; 
going  inland  to  lay,  348;  dead, 
367. 

Tortoise,  spotted  or  yellow-spotted 
{Emya  guttata),  5,  40,  41,  7,  273, 
313,  318,  8,  265,  9,  276,  278,  405, 
12,  80;  spots  of,  3,  379,  471,  476; 
hissing,  465;  basking  in  the  sun, 
5,  101;  settling  into  the  sod,  7, 
357;  shell  found  in  an  old  church, 
468;  sunning,  9,  309;  hole  of,  10, 
488;  digging  its  hole,  498;  time 
of  coming  out  in  spring,  13,  234. 

Tortoise,  wood  (Emya  inaculpta), 
5,  84,  122,  6,  153,  7,  455,  8,  364, 

9,  304,  305,  366.  367;  young.  6, 
350;  leeches  on.  7,  287;  shell  of. 
broken,  10,  416;  out  eariy,  336.. 
337;  lying  still  for  weeks  at  a  time, 
406;  one  year  old,  420;  excavat- 
ing and  laying,  489-491;  nests 
and  eggs  of,  491 ;  a  handsome,  499, 
500;  a  venerable.  13,  377,  378; 
eating  a  toadstool,  413. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


448 


INDEX 


Tortoises,  1,  447;  mythology  and 
palaeontology  of,  2,  160;  in  Gala- 
pagos Archipelago,  262,  263;  clum- 
siness of,  3,  362 ;  the  shell  of  a 
tortoise,  4«  103;  marks  of,  for 
concealment,  162;  a  young  tortoifie, 
5,  14;  a  pet  tortoise  frozen  in  and 
thawed  out,  20;  eggs  of,  eat«n  by 
skunks,  50,  258;  tracks  of,  248; 
eggs  of.  dropped  on  the  surface  of 
the  ground,  268;  depth  of  burial 
of  eggs  of,  279;  a  tortoise  tumbling 
down  a  steep  bank,  6,  291;  scales 
of  a  tortoise,  456;  rolling  down  a 
bank,  7,  322;  suggested  names  for 
the  several  species  of,  454;  shapes 
of  shells  of  various  species,  495; 
run  over  on  the  railroad,  8*  40; 
sunning,  313;  and  time.  9, 32,  33;  in 
the  breeding-season,  405;  run  over 
in  the  ruts,  421,  422;  and  crows, 
IO9  490;  depth  at  which  ^gs  are 
placed  by.  13, 370.  See  aUo  Turtles. 

Tortoise-shell,  used  for  ornament,  12, 
123,  124. 

ToUmue  aoiUariuB,  See  Tattler,  soli- 
tarj'. 

Touch-me-not,  2,  389. 

Toumefort,  Joseph  Pittou  de,  and 
Hermann,  3,   122,  4,  159. 

Town,  beautifying  of  a,  14,  304,  305. 

Towns,  ninth-day,  6,  111,  112. 

Townsend  Light  Infantry,  1,  160. 

Tracks,  10, 226;  walking  in  another's. 
7,  163;  in  snow,  changed  by  thaw, 
195,  196;  of  clowns  and  of  gentle- 
men, 196;  of  persons,  inferences 
from,  202;  of  George  Melvin,  13, 
127, 128;  of  animals  on  the  river- 
shore,  266,  267. 

Tracy,  C.  M.,  walk  with,  12,  164. 

Trade,  the  curse  of,  2,  319,  320;  as 
r^arded  by  writers,  6,  106. 

Trades,  artificiality  and  complexity 
of,  5,  445. 

Tragedy,  value  of.  4,  335. 

Tragedy,  the  old  English.  1,  465. 

Training,  May,  0,  381,  382;  a  leg  of 
baoon  at  a  muster,  141,  142. 

Transcendentalism,  2,  229, 5, 4. 

Transmigration,  2,  271. 

Trapper,  pursuits  of  the,  11,  456,  457. 

Trapping,  literal  and  metaphorical, 
12,  82. 

Trask,  O.  B.,  3,  466.  467. 

Travel,  should  b^n  at  home,  2,  376; 
no  need  for,  3,  181;  different  man- 


ners of,  183,  184;  a  dissipation, 
255;  a  progress  toward  home,  304; 
imaginary,  358.  7,  160.  161;  bar- 
renness of,  A,  497;  disadvantages 
of,  8,  204,  11,  275;   advantage  of, 

9,  88;  a  disease.  251,  252;  across 
country,  428;   amount  of,  needed, 

10,  190,  191;  futiUty  of,  234.  235; 
by  carriage,  11,  7,  8. 

Travellers,  the  treatment  of,  9,  225; 
the  rights  of,  11,  55. 

Trays,  hand-made  wooden,  11,  225, 
227. 

Treason,  essence  of,  12,  401. 

Tree-primrose.  See  Evening-prim- 
rose. 

Trees,  grandeur  of ,  1,  282,  283;  shad- 
ows of,  2,  26,  4,  218;  dying  in  a 
fire,  2,  29;   after  freshets,  71;    In- 

.  dian  names  for,  105;  benefited  by 
woodpeckers,  120;  larger  in  Amer- 
ica than  in  Europe,  142;  beauty  of, 
in  moonlight,  195;  resinous,  199; 
significance  of,  about  a  house,  281; 
dead.  312;  different  characters  of, 
3,  36;  overturned,  91;  method  of 
felling,  173;  attitudes  of,  in  the 
snow,  177,  178;  against  the  sky, 
230;  shadows  of,  on  snow,  273; 
after  thawing,  366;  deciduous,  im- 
bosoming  evergreens,  4, 41;  age  of, 
87;  growth  of,  compared  to  man's, 
227,  228;  ice  on,  440-443,  445, 
character  of,  changed  by  ice,  441; 
442;  lists  of.  with  respect  to  leaf- 
ing. 5,  126,  138,  160,  6,  297-302, 
7,  357,  358, 13,  319,  320;  as  relics 
of  the  past,  A,  127;  different  greens 
of,  384.  385;  view  through  leafless, 
480,  481 ;  roots  of,  as  a  study,  490; 
intermediate  class  of,  called  ever- 
reds,  6,  3;  leafing  of,  depends  on 
latitude,  282;  in  "New-England's 
Prospect,"  7,  133,  134;  leafing  and 
flowering  of,  351;  climbing,  363; 
reverence  for,  514,  515;  annual 
rings  in,  8,  147;  near  Eagleswood, 
N.  J..  9,  136-139;  gossamer-like 
tracery  of,  140;  effect  of  early 
cutting  among  full-grown,  169; 
planted  by  squirrels,  10,  39,  40; 
conditions  favorable  to  hardwood, 
40.  41;  first  to  turn  in  autumn, 
42,  43;  harmony  in  forms  of,  43, 
44;  vandalic  treatment  of,  50,  51; 
after  first  smart  frost,  55;  inclina- 
tion of  limbs,  66;  list  of,  to  change 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


449 


eia>ly  in  fall,  67;  buried  in  streams, 
87;  a  graveyard  of,  276;  flat- 
tened by  snow  and  wind.  It*  32; 
marked  by  ice,  105;  value  of,  to  a 
village.  218-A221;  dense  masses  of 
bare,  295;  destruction  of,  in  Con- 
cord, 299,  300;  frostwork  on, 
398-400,  403-407;  symmetry  of 
those  growing  in  the  open  ac- 
counted for,  442,  443;  blooming 
before  May  Ist,  1^«  133;  dispersion 
of,  13, 305;  vivacity  of  roots  of,  14, 
121;  list  of  those  which  grow  in 
masses,  134.    See  aUo  Forest  trees. 

Tree-toad,  12,  399;  marked  for  con- 
cealment, 4,  162;  called  out  by 
warm  weather,  5,  162;  notes  of, 
195,  196,  253. 

Trench.  Richard  Chenevix,  4,  466, 
467,  482. 

Tricfioetema  dichotomum.  See  Blue- 
curls. 

Trientalis  6,  164. 

Trillium,  nodding,  scent  of,  4,  73,  5, 
164. 

Trillium  erythrocarpum,  beauty  of,  10, 
454. 

Trilliums,  fruit  of,  2,  440,  4,  304. 

Troopial,  cow.  See  Cowbird. 

Tropics,  effect  of,  on  man,  12,  365. 

Trough,  for  cattle,  10,  210. 

Trout.  1,  475,  476.  3,  57,  7,  113,  8, 
303,  327. 9,  201 ;  in  early  March,  6, 
155;  agility  of  young,  159;  run- 
ning up  brooks,  7,  283;  concealing 
himself,  293;  antics  of,  9,  293;  in 
a  Maine  pond,  503;  a  ten-pound, 
10,  180;  attacking  a  pickerel,  399; 
in  Walden.  11,  433. 

"True  friendship  is  so  firm  a  league," 
verse,  1,  248. 

"True,  our  converse  a  stranger  is  to 
speech,"  verse,  1,  50. 

Trumpet-flowers,  4,  284.  See  also 
Ewpatorium  purpureum. 

Truth  in  the  abstract,  1,  52;  evasive- 
ness of,  117;  has  no  opponent,  118; 
paradoxical,  153;  God's  concern. 
213;  unattained,  236;  grounded 
in  love,  332;  kinds  of,  2,  403; 
power  of,  to  communicate  itself,  3, 
172;  sweetness  of,  4,  129;  com- 
pared to  cocoanut  milk,  146;  pub- 
licity of,  290;  spoken  out  of  bitter- 
ness, 6,  169;  the  eternal  plains  of, 
9, 237, 238;  view-points  of,  10, 165; 
concealment  of.  impossible,  11, 449. 


"Truth,  Goodness,  Beauty,  —  those 
celestial  thrins,"  verse,  1,  51. 

Truths,  the  perception  of  a  new  truth, 
3,  441,  442:  roundly  represented, 
465;    higher  and  lower,  10,  153. 

Tub-maker,  shop  of  a,  9,  187. 

Tuckerman,  Edward,  quoting  Fries. 
3,  286;  on  Linnseus,  288;  on  rock- 
tripe,  6,  158;  on  potamogetons, 
449;    on  lecheas,  8,  423. 

Tuckerman's  R&vine,  visit  to,  11,  21- 
37;  slides  in.  57. 

Tulip-tree.  9,  136. 

Tullus  Hostilius.  6,  28. 

Tunison's  Bookstore,  9,  138. 

Tupelo,  6,  253, 10,  238;  at  Scituate, 
2,349,350;  leafing  of .  4, 58;  leaves 
of,  6, 393. 7, 14. 15;  fruit  of,  61, 12, 
319;  in  "  New  England's  Prospect," 
7, 133, 134;  an  umbrella-shaped,  8, 
395;  a  large,  10,  27,  28. 

Turdus  aqualicue.   See  Water-thrush. 

Turkev.  wild.  7,  135. 

Turkeys,  2.  83,  430,  8,  165. 

Turkey-shooting,  a.  9,  130,  131. 

Turnips,  raw.  2,  305,  306. 

Turpentine,  7,  237. 

TurrUis  atricta,  6,  192.  228. 

Turtle,  an  unidentified,  9,  328  and 
note,  329,  330.  484,  485. 

Turtle,  musk,  or  stinkpot  (Stemo- 
thoTua  odoratus),  4,  222,  6,  271,  7, 
451, 8, 423, 11. 80. 12.  119, 13.  407; 
^(gs  of.  6.  349;  development  of  an 
egg  of.  388;  hatching,  7.  28,  29;  a 
newly  hatched,  32.  33;  young, 
liberated,  382;  shell  of,  8,  361; 
sluggishness  of,  399;  scent  of,  10, 
340;  climbing  willow  stems,  11,  80, 
81;   time  of  laying.  13.  357. 

Turtle,  snapping  or  mud  {Chelonura 
serpentina),  8,  25,  310.  311,  328, 
403, 9,  361,  362;  catching  a  horned 
pout,  2,  14,  15;  young  in  egg,  102, 
6,  414,  473.  474, 7,  4.  5;  protective 
color  of,  4,  222;  taken  into  the 
boat.  6,  270,  271;  beauty  of  out- 
line in  shell  of.  271;  description  of 
one  captured  and  dragged  home, 
271-274;  snapping  of.  276;  method 
of  excavating.  334,  13,  355;  after 
excavating,  6,  334;  a  method  of 
catching,  337;  nest  and  eggs  of,  367, 
368,  454;  hatching  of,  474;  the  irre- 
sistible necessity  for,  474;  used  as 
food,  475;  the  catching  and  killing 
of,  475,  476;  some  large  ones,  475, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


450 


INDEX 


476;  used  by  the  Indians,  476;  re- 
flections on  the  shell  of  a,  478, 479; 
weight  of  large  specimen,  490;  an 
artificially  hatched,  7,  6;  young,  9, 
10,  16,  33,  474,  475.  10,  340,  341; 
Garfield  on,  7,  25,  26;  some  large 
ones,  25,  26;  eggs  of,  hatching,  43, 
44;  a  newly  hatched,  44,  45;  young 
liberated,  382;  hole  of  a,  428;  escape 
of  a,  428,  429;  Nahum  Haynes's 
story  of  two  large  ones,  432;  Rice's 
story  of,  8,  32,  33;  constitution  of, 
105;  two  caught  when  fighting,  171; 
weight  of,  171;  an  abundance  of, 
171;  description  of  a  young,  327; 
a  venerable,  344-346,  350,  351; 
broad  back  of.  351;  fighting.  403; 
Agassiz  on  hatching  of,  9, 299;  eggs 
of,  10,  328,  329;  Agassiz  quoted 
on  embryo,  399.  400;  killed  after 
an  early  freshet,  429;  cooked  with 
its  eggs,  507;  snout  of,  11,  73,  74; 
the  skeleton  of  a,  109.  110;  a  large, 
335;  its  place  among  the  constella- 
tions. 12,  391;  rapid  decomposition 
of,  13,  265;    tracks  of,  349.  355. 

Turtles,  14,  82;  walking  up-stream, 
4,  221;  manner  of  walking,  5,  193; 
egg-shells  of,  272;  tracks  of,  6,  333. 
13,  352;  the  earth  the  mother  of, 
7,  28,  29;  an  historic  turtle,  475; 
length  of  life  of,  8,  342;  eating 
toadstools,  467;  a  turtle  in  the 
I>ocket,  9,  329;  date  of  revival  in 
spring,  10,  342;  water  carried  by, 
491;  time  of  laying,  499;  floating 
dead,  502;  resurrection  of,  in 
spring,  12,  171,  172;  danger  to, 
from  herons,  13,  346,  347.  See  also 
Tortoises. 

Turtles,  sea,  7,  442,  9,  419. 

Tuttle,   Augustus,  11,   454. 

".'T  was  thirty  years  ago,"  verse,  10, 
138. 

Tweezer-bird.  See  Warbler,  blue  yel- 
low-backed. 

Twigs,  like  cobwebs.  10,  158. 

Twihght,  autumnal,  6,  475. 

"Two  years  and  twenty  now  have 
flown,"  verse,  1,  127. 

Tyngsboro,  1,  91. 

Typhalatifolia.  <Scc  Cat-tail.     • 

Tyrolese  singers,  1, 192, 196. 

Umbilicaria.  See  Lichen. 
Uncannunuc,  11,  301;  snow  on,  307. 
Uncle  Bill.  See  Watson,  Uncle  Bill. 


Uncle  Charles.   See  Dunbar,  Charles. 
Uncle  David.    See  Dunbar,  David. 
Uncle  Ned.   See  Watson,  Edward. 
Uncle  Sam.    See  Small,  Uncle  Sam. 
U.  S.  Hotel,  Amherst.  K.  H.,  9,  188. 
Universal    Intelligence,    science    the 

agent  of.  6,  4;  expression  of,  by 

cocoons.  131,  132. 
"Up  this  pleasant  stream  let's  row," 

verse,  1,  84. 
Upanishads,  the,  10,  54. 
Urtica  Canaderuds,  9,  66. 
Usnea,  3,  318, 5,  18, 9,  198.     See  aUo 

Moss. 
Utricularia.   See  Bladderwort. 
Uvularia  perfoliaia,  9,  391,  10,  427, 

12,  186. 
Uvularia  seasiHfolia,  4,  53. 

VacciniecB,  blossoms  of,  6,  300.  See 
also  Whortleberry  Family. 

Vaccinium,  alpine  species  of,  11,  41 ; 
origin  of  name,  14,  211. 

Vaccinium  cceapitosum,  12,  202. 

Vaccinium  Canadenae,  14,  299;  on 
Mt.  Monadnock,  13. 

Vaccinium  Oxycoccua.  <Sc«  Cranberry, 
small. 

Vaccinium  uliginoaum,  11,  17. 

Vallisneria.  8,  442. 

Valparaiso,  Bay  of,  2,  247.  248. 

Van  Best,  a  Dutch  painter,  7,  482. 

Van  Buren,  President,  demonstra- 
tion against,  I,  162  note. 

Van  der  Donck.  quoted,  3,  34. 

Vaneaaa  Antiopa.   5€c  Butterfly. 

Vapor,  from  newly  plowed  ground, 
12,  142,  143. 

Varro,  on  fences,  6,  74;  on  winter  oc- 
cupations, 75;  on  grafting,  81-83; 
on  grains,  82;  on  derivation  of 
"villa,"  83;  on  man's  domestica- 
tion of  animals.  89;  on  two  varie- 
ties of  pigeons,  92;  on  bee-hives.  94; 
on  beards  of  antiquity,  97;  on 
farmers,  107,  108;  on  ninth-day 
markets,  111;  on  the  bleat  of  the 
sheep,  10,  126. 

Vaudreuil,  Marquis  de.  3,  282. 

Vedas,  the,  1,  275-278,  2,  4. 

Veery,  or  Wilson's  thrush',  I,  70,  4, 
89:  starlight  song  of,  174;  nest  and 
eggs  of,  6,  282,  7,  419,  10,  606; 
yorrick  note  of,  6«  251. 

Veeshnoo  Sarma,  1,  345. 

Vegetation,  follows  the  sun,  3,  459. 

Ventriloquism,  of  a  bird,  2,  17. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


451 


Venus,  6,  56. 

Vermont,  seen  from  Mt.  Monadnock, 
14,  21. 

Vemonia,  12,  302. 

Veronica  aerpyUifolia.  See  Speed- 
well, smooth. 

Vervain,  blue,  flowering  of,  2,  414, 
415,  466,  4,  284;  stems  of,  10,  88; 
used  as  medicine,  278,  279. 

Vervain,  white,  6,  338. 

Vetch,  tufted,  4,  193. 

Viburnum,  buds  of,  in  December, 
4,  419;  leaves  of,  5,  122. 

Viburnum,  maple,  berries  of,  7,  36; 
leaves  of,  511. 

Viburnum,  naked  (V.  nudum),  4, 
316,  6,  225,  7,  511;  odor  of,  4, 
119;  berries  of,  318,  329,  6,  365, 
391,  6,  433.  456,  457,  471.  9,  31, 
49,  59;  leafing  of,  6,  281;  flowering, 
12,  168;  leaf  of.  188. 

Viburnum,  sweet  {V.  Lentago),  4,  318, 
6,  482,  7,  53;  flowers  of,  4,  102; 
berries  of,  6,  395,  9,  30,  12,  316, 
319,  14,  116,  117;  leafing  of,  6, 
281. 

Viburnum  dentatum,  5,  226,  356; 
berries  of.  4,  315,  316,  9,  30,  11, 
98.    See  also  Arrow-wood. 

Viburnum  lantanoides,  4,  344,  10, 
454. 

Viburnum.  prunifoUum,  6,  445,  9, 
135,  412,  10,  442. 

Vice,  leaning  on  virtue,  1,  78;  the 
companion  of  virtue,  208;  effect  of, 
on  man,  227,  228;  uses  of,  7,  48. 

Victoria  regia,  leaves  of,  6,  482. 

View,  points  of,  on  life,  11,  285-287. 

Views,  beauty  of  wide,  4,  10;  charm 
of  a  new  view,  9,  495. 

Village,  its  relation  to  education,  4, 
323,  324;  characterization  of  the, 
6,  82.  83;  a  Cape  Cod,  9,  427- 
430;  value  of  trees  to  the,  11,  218- 
221. 

Villarsia,  common,  4,  116. 

Vimont,  P^re  Barth^lemy,  on  cus- 
toms of  the  Iroquois,  6,  50. 

Viola  blanda,  scent  of,  4,  27. 

Viola  cucuUata,  5,  164,  7,  413;  colors 
of,  5,  137. 10,  431. 

Viola  lanceolata,  6,  143,  165. 

Viola  Muhlenbergii,  6,  179.  8,  352. 

Viola  ovata,  4,  42,  44,  6,  147,  6,  261; 
color  of,  6,  137. 

Viola  palmata,  6,  202. 

Viola  pedata,  2,  431,  5,   165,   176; 


blooming  in  November,  2,  89; 
color  of,  5,  137;  (expression  of,  10, 
411;  growing  in  barren  places,  12, 
125. 

Violet,  yellow,  6,  164. 

Violets,  4,  57;  in  December,  427; 
colors  of  the  blue  species,  5,  137; 
relative  abundance  of  the  various 
species  in  early  May,  12,  180,  181. 

Vireo,  midwife  to  the  leaves  of  the 
ekn,  4,  32. 

Vireo,  red-eyed,  or  red-eye,  5,  243, 
7,  396,  10,  419;  the  robin  of  the 
woods,  4,  69;  expresses  midsum- 
mer, 117;  song  of,  6,  305,  11,  60; 
nest  of,  6,  306;  eggs  of,  7,  443;  its 
art  in  nest-building,  10,  286;  preen- 
ing itself,  13,  307. 

Vireo,  solitary,  10,  395.  396,  408. 

Vireo,  warbling,  6,  133;  song  of,  7, 
396, 10,  412, 13,  316. 

Vireo,  white-eyed,  Nuttall  on  song 
o^  7,  398. 

Vireo,  yellow-throated,  song  of,  6, 
305.  306,  7,  396,  8,  346, 13,  307. 

Vireos'  nests.  7,  414,  419.  8,  108-110, 
161.  162.  174,  175,  180. 

Virgil,  quoted,  1,  120.  13,  26,  27. 

Virgin's-bower.    See  Clematis. 

Virtue,  vice  leaning  on,  1,  78;  per- 
ception of,  is  possession.  80;  one 
with  bravery,  98;  vice  the  com- 
panion of,  208;  practiced  in  se- 
cret, 211;  effect  of,  on  man,  228; 
buoyancy  of,  254;  art  of,  308: 
incalculability  of,  359;  all  gifts 
mediums  (to,  414;  among  the  Hin- 
doos, 2,  4;  necessary  to  knowledge 
of  nature,  4,  80;  health  and,  5,  19. 

Voice,  the.  2,  474.  480,  481;  effect  of 
a  musical,  1,  194,  195. 

"Wachusett,"  verse,  1,  256. 

Wading.  See  Walks,  fluvial. 

Wafer,  Lionel,  on  albinos,  4,  226. 

Wagon,  creaking  of  a.  4,  473. 

Walcott.  on  John  Brown.  14, 291. 292. 

"Walden"  (the  book),  7,  467;  first 
proof  of,  received.0, 176;  published, 
6, 429,  7,  8  note;  taken  for  a  satire, 
103. 

"Walden,^'  verse,  1,  50. 

Walden  Pond,  mood  of,  at  night,  1, 
260,  261;  a  childhood  visit  to,  380, 
381;  the  unsuccessful  village  near, 
423,  424;  cannot  be  spoiled.  3,  35; 
loss  of  woods  about,  224;  in  former 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


45i 


INDEX 


days,  228,  229;  not  quite  spoiled, 
263;  a  good  thermometer,  410, 41 1 ; 
colors  of,  478,  4,  337,  387;  purity 
of  its  water.  160;  shores  of,  320- 
323,  337;  not  to  be  fatally  injured 
by  an  axe,  338;  simplicity  of,  341; 
rise  and  fall  of.  423,  424,  6,  226. 
227;  its  relation  to  Flint's  Pond 
and  Concord  River,  4, 425;  a  legend 
of,  5,  260;  green  ice  of,  6,  81;  ice 
on,  measured,  138;  unaffected  by 
drought,  491;  average  frozen  term 
of,  9,  312;  likened  to  an  Indian 
maiden,  lO*  75;  lives  sparingly  on 
v^etables,  11,  160;  temperature 
of,  14,  60.  61,  66. 

Walden  Pond  Society,  the,  9,  331. 

Walkers,  the,  9,  331. 

Walking,  as  a  science,  6,  464;  time 
^  spent  daily  in,  9«  208;  in  a  wilder- 
ness, 259, 260;  new  avenues  for,  in 

Wallfs,  fluvial,  4,  211-214,  220-223, 
260,  261;  a  prairial  walk,  6,  464; 
across  lots,  479,  480;  in  winter,  9, 
197;   companions  on,  11,  296,  297. 

Wall,  Mr.,  an  artist.  8,  393. 

Walnut.  Evelyn  on  malignity  of,  4, 
84.   See  also  Hickory. 

Walnut,  black,  nut  of.  6, 497;  pith  of, 
9,  410;   rarity  of,  12,  439,  440. 

Walnut,  European,  fruit  of  the,  2, 142. 

Walsh,  Lieutenant,  2,  367. 

Wan,  lake  of,  inscriptions  at,  6,  11. 

War,  1,  100,  101;  and  the  soul,  156; 
actual  and  spiritual,  246,  247;  its 
relation  to  law,  333.  334;  civiliza- 
tion and,  3,  322;  and  history,  4, 
267;  prospect  of,  between  England 
and  America,  8,  189;  not  yet  over, 
11,106. 

Warbler,  black  and  white.  See 
Creeper. 

Warbler,  black  and  yellow  (Sylvia 
maculoM),  13,  422. 

Warbler,  Blackbumian,  7,  391,  10, 
477. 

Warbler,  black-poll  {Sylvia  striata), 
8,  349,  350,  13,  306,  307,  314,  315. 

Warbler,  black-throated  green,  7, 
360,  399.  See  also  Evergreen-forest 
bird. 

Warbler,  blue  yellow-backed  or  parti- 
colored, or  tweezer-bird  (Sylvia 
Americana),  6,  131,  6,  369,  7,  363, 
364,  424,  425, 8,  335  336,  340,  343, 
344, 12,  187, 13,  288,  373;  song  of. 


8,  335,  336,  343,  344.  395, 10,  398, 
408;  near  the  Quitticus  Ponds,  395. 

Warbler,  Canada  (Sylvia  pardalind), 
7,  406, 13,  309,  315. 

Warbler,  chestnut-sided,  6,  350,  7, 
384,  8,  344,  350,  9,  376,  391,  12, 
215, 13,  299;  song  of,  8,  344,  350; 
an  inquisitive,  13,  334. 

Warbler,  Connecticut,  12,  359  note. 

Warbler,  golden- winged,  13,  382,  418, 
419. 

Warbler,  Nashville,  10,  423  and  note. 

Warbler,  night.  See  Night-warbler. 

Warbler,  pine,  3,  458,  464,  6,  85,  6, 
218,  219,  8,  269,  270.  288,  318.  9, 
25,  12,  372,  373;  song  of,  5,  103. 
147, 6,  203,  214, 7,  308,  380, 8,  269, 
270,  273,  288, 10,  365. 12, 145, 146, 
13,  280;  feeding.  5,  104.  7,  379; 
an  encounter  with  a  black  and 
white  creeper,  379. 

Warbler,  yellow  redpoll.  See  Redpoll, 
yellow. ' 

Warbler,  yellow-rumped,  or  myrtle- 
bird  (Syhricola  coronata),  4,  35.  5« 
110,  143,  426,  458.  459,  6,  213,  7, 
488, 10,  113.  114,  386;  notes  of,  4, 
9, 6,  223, 7,  322,  336,  344,  355,  360, 
364,  371,  375,  8,  323,  325,  9,  129. 
10,  392,  404,  479;  Brewer's  letter 
to  Ricketson  on,  9,  317,  318;  fall 
dress  of,  11,  184. 

Warblers,  unidentified,  7,  55,  395, 
400.  405.  424,  9,  385,  12,  359,  13, 
288. 

Warblers,  of  every  hue.  6,  206;  easily 
seen  in  May,  12,  188;  on  a  windy 
day,  188;    season  of,  13,  327. 

Warren,  Mr.,  brings  birds  to  T.,  U, 
166,  181. 

Warren,  Cyrus,  3,  102. 

Washburn,  Mr.,  of  Quinsigamond 
Village,  7,  101. 

Wstehington,  Colonel,  his  estimate  of 
John  Brown,  12,  437. 

Wasps,  in  the  Walden  house,  2,  86; 
and  the  invention  of  paper,  407; 
sunning  themselves  in  the  fall,  3, 
40;  on  a  warm  day  in  October,  67; 
building  a  nest  of  mud  in  T.'s  room, 
A,  357;  the  stini;  of  a  wasp,  6,  428; 
nests  of,  9,  461,  462,  11,  239;  at 
work  on  nest.  9,  462,  463;  working 
hours  of,  475.    See  also  Hornets. 

Waste-book,  an  old,  6,  77-80. 

Water,  the  spirit  of,  2,  67;  better 
than  wine,  69,  70;    by  moonlight, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


453 


248, 249;  moon  on,  252. 253;  sound 
of  falling,  257;  necessity  of  pure, 
314;  the  blood  of  Nature,  340;  the 
world  made  of,  3,  167;  battle  of, 
with  sand,  344;  multiplies  the 
heavens,  4*  21;  power  of,  23; 
changing  color  of,  60;  stagnant, 
contains  liquor  of  life,  102;  wealth 
in  stagnant,  106;  surfaces  of,  liquid 
•  eyes  of  nature,  147;  lights  of,  149; 
a  ribbon  of  open,  amid  ice,  5*  28, 
29;  natural  rights  in,  45,  46;  as  an 
engineer,  517;  sound  of,  under  ice, 
6»  129;  half  frozen,  on  edge  of 
river,  143.  144;  vitality  of,  246; 
purity  of,  for  drinking,  8,  305;  jets 
of,  in  a  dam,  324;  clear  on  a  cloudy 
day,  434;  different  kinds  in  jux- 
taposition, 12,  29;  relation  of,  to 
animal  and  v^etable  life,  54,  55; 
making  for  itself  a  strand.  57;  rea- 
son for  clarity  of,  260;  color  of, 
best  seen,  13,  133;  color  of,  when 
roughened,  133;  diamond-shaped 
ripples  on,  157;  the  earth's  blood, 
163;  the  surface  parded  in  early 
spring,  172-175. 

Water-bugs,  path  of,  in  moonlight, 
2,  476;  endless  motion  of,  4,  182; 
form  and  scent  of,  189;  detecting 
the  progress  of,  382;  habits  of, 
384.  10,  254-256;  winter  quarters 
of,  4,  ^08;  crossing  the  river,  6, 
308;  shadows  of,  10,  104,  105. 13, 
204;  in  the  evening,  12,  277;  food 
of,  302;  out  in  winter,  13,  92,  93, 
114;  avoiding  capture,  267;  ven- 
turing out  from  shore  at  dusk,  332, 
341,  361. 

Waterfall,  music  of  a,  4,  102. 

Water-lily,  4,  217,  6,  299,  8«  414; 
its  endurance  of  heat,  2,  331;  queen 
of  the  waters,  4, 147-149;  in  church, 
148;  popularity  of,  148, 149;  smok- 
ing the  dried  stems  of,  149;  buds 
of,  162;  defended  against  drought, 
162;  Sabbath  mornings  with,  162; 
skill  required  in  pulling,  163;  rosa- 
ceous, 4, 167, 168;  form  of,  168, 12, 
326;  opening  and  closing  of,  4. 169, 
182-185.  7,  5,  11,  70;  opened  by 
hand,  4,  172,  183;  sailing  in  a  dish, 
172;  like  a  boat,  205;  like  a  duck 
on  the  water,  232;  purity  of,  235. 
5,  283;  pads  of.  226.  402.  440.  6, 
434.  469,  470.  13,  347,  408,  409; 
roots  of,  6,  515,  528,  8,  293,  302; 


emblem  of  purity,  6,  352,  353;  re- 
serve ooil  of,  9,  20;  fragrance  of, 
tl ,  70;  sweetness  and  simplicity  of. 
70,  71;  a  large,  72;  a  white  star, 
73;  in  FitzwilUam,  N.  H.,  14,  53; 
seed-pods  of,  116. 

Water-lines,  3,  390, 12,  53,  54. 

Watermelon-patch,  necessity  of  hid- 
ing, 12,  312. 

Watermelons,  5,  372;  signs  of  ripe- 
ness in,  12,  298.    See  also  Melons. 

Water-mills,  the  boy's  and  the  man's, 
4,  228. 

Water-ouzel.  7,  299. 

Water-plants,  n^lect  of,  by  students. 
9,5. 

Water-raising  machines,  6,  9. 

Water-target,  6,  310, 10,  611. 

Water-thrush  {Turdua  aquaticu9  or 
Naveboracenaia),  8,  346,  347,  13, 
308. 

Watson,  Albert,  sons  of,  2,  363,  9, 
417,  418. 

Watson,  B.  Marston,  trees  on  his 
grounds  at  Plymouth,  2,  363;  visit 
to,  9,  414,  415,  419,  420;  glow- 
worms given  to  T.  by.  10,  3.  33;  .a 
walk  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Watson, 
32,  33. 

Watson,  Mrs.  B.  Marston,  4,  69. 

Watson.  Edward  (Uncle  Ned),  2,  354, 
356. 359. 363. 9,  416.  419;  teUs  of  a 
swamped  boat.3,  355;  fishing  with, 
363;  his  use  of  the  word  "glade," 
10,  53. 

Watson,  Edward,  son  of  Albert  Wat- 
son, 2,  363. 

Watson,  Mortimer.  2,  363. 

Watson,  "Uncle  Bill,"  2,  355,  360; 
tells  of  "kelp  flies,"  9,  417. 

Watson's  Hill,  at  Plymouth,  2,  363. 

Wattles,  Mr.,  of  Vermont,  1,  262. 

Watts,  Horatio,  8,  468. 

Watts's  place,  2,  88. 

Waves,  2,  348,  349,  6,  246-248;  play 
of,  1,  231,  10,  130;  height  of.  6, 
491;  motion  of,  9,  440;  curving  up- 
stream, 11,  156;  breadth  of,  423; 
running  along  edge  of  ice,  13,  161. 

Waxwork,  leaves  of,  7,  498;  on  su- 
mach. 9,  289,  290. 

Wayfarer,  an  old,  9,  316. 

Wayland  hills,  view  from  the,  2,  217. 

"We  pronounce  thee  happy,  cicada," 
verse.  1,  66. 

"  We  two  that  planets  erst  hftd  been," 
verse,  1,  72. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


454 


INDEX 


Wealth,  true,  I,  177;  respect  for,  3, 
200;  a  measure  of,  5*  142;  barren- 
ness of.  497;  disadvantages  of,  8* 
120,  121,  205;  material  compared 
with  that  of  thought,  9,  350;  true 
and  false,  10, 165;  the  true,  always 
cheap  and  despised,  11,  127;  natu- 
ral, 218. 

Weasel,  a  white,  7, 206;  tracks  of,  207; 
catching  squirrels,  207;  an  en- 
counter with  a  hawk,  13,  88. 

Weather,  instantaneous  changes  of, 

1,  400;  ever  the  news,  3,  161;  the 
most  trying,  6,  349;  period  of  hot- 
test, 7,  17;  freaks  of,  144-147;  as 
a  subject  of  conversation,  10,  178; 
an  interesting  phenomenon,  13, 
106,  107. 

Weather-wise,  the  truly,  4,  320. 

Weaving,  art  of,  2,  134. 

Webster,  Daniel,  farm  of,  2,  350,  351, 
361;  his  nearest  neighbor,  361,362; 
quoted,  3,  35;  lawyer  for  Jonathan 
Toby,  7,  465;  last  words  of,  9,  151 
note;  his  farming,  261,  262;  sees 
the  sea-serpent,  416;    his  old  New 

.   Hampshire  home,  11,  54. 

Webster,  Noah,  quoted,.?,  171,  11, 
386. 

Weeds,  time  for  observing,  3,  53,  54; 
vigor  of,  4,  250,  251 ;  abundance  of 
dead,  in  October,  393;  accompani- 
ments of  civilization,  5, 392;  beauty 
of  frost-covered,  6,  63;  at  water- 
side, growth  of,  372,  373;  clearing 
the  river  of,  378;  obstruction  of 
river  by,  391,  423;  floating  wreck 
of,  7,  13;  interest  in,  83;  in  the 
snow,  197;  definition  of,  9,  59; 
forming  river-borders,  10,  60;  in- 
dispensable to  fishes,  12,  280;  pre- 
pared by  Nature  for  the  birds,  306; 
in  old  cellars,  340,  341. 

!*.  Week  on  the  Concord  and  Merrimack 
Rivers,  A,"  hypsethral  character  of, 

2,  274,  275;  return  and  storing  of 
unsold  copies  of,  6, 459, 460;  raising 
money  to  pay  for,  512;  settlement 
of  the  publisher's  account  for,  521; 
twelve  copies  sent  to  Fields,  7, 
8  note. 

Weight,  1,  190. 

Weld,  Mr.,  monument  of,  at  Dun- 
stable, 11,  3. 

Well,  the  building  of  a,  3,  73, 13,  251, 
252. 

Welland  Canal,  1,  335. 


Wentworth,  of  Jackson,  N.  H.,  11, 13, 

28-30,  34,  57;    on  bears,   14,  44; 

engaged  to  carry  baggage  and  keep 

camp,  14;  on  certain  trees,  15;  sets 

fire  to  the  scrub,  26;  talks  with,  33, 

36;  on  the  fir,  37. 
Wesson,  of  Concord,  talks  with,  10, 

113,  208,  209. 
Wesson,  J.,  6,  421. 
West  Harwich,  harbor  of,  9,  431.      • 
Westfield,  7,  416. 
Westminster  (Mass.),  9,  61,  62. 
Weston,  Daniel,  6,  19;    on  the  frost- 
weed,  4,  428. 
Weston,  young,  6,  20. 
"Westward,  hoi "  verse,  1,  259. 
Wetherbee,  expressman,  10, 215, 216. 
Whaler,  a,  11,  367. 
Whales,  figuring  in  Nantucket  life,  7. 

92;   on  weather-vanes,  482;    bones 

of,  9,  451. 

What  doth  he  ask?"  verse,  1,  403. 
"  What  is  itgilds  the  trees  and  clouds," 

verse,  1,  292. 
"What's  the  railroad  to  me?"  verse, 

2,58. 
Wheat,  as  food,  3,  349. 
Wheeler,  Miss,  teacher  of  T.,  8,  95. 
Wheeler,  Mr.,  of  Framingham,  5,  53. 
Wheeler,  Abiel,  6,  222.  9,  303. 
Wheeler,  Bill,  life  and  death  of,  3, 

195-198. 
Wheeler,  Edmund,  2,  19. 
Wheeler,  F.,  Jr.,  3,  481. 
Wheeler,  Francis,  8,  191. 
Wheeler,  old  Mr.  Francis,  3,  481. 
Wheeler,  Noah.  3,  481. 
Wheeler,  P.,  8,  94. 
Wheeler,  Sam,  6,  95,  8,  403. 
Wheeler,  Tommy,  3,  160. 
Wheeler,  William,  6,    150;  *  tells   of 

skeletons  of  British  soldiers,  2,  19; 

goes  spearing,  8,  37;  talk  with,  237; 

on  farming,  334,  335. 
"Wheeling  Intelligence."  newspaper, 

12,  439. 
"When    the   toads   b^in   to   ring," 

verse,  6,  222. 
"When  the  world  grows  old  by  the 

chimney-side,"  verse,  1,  73. 
"When  winter  fringes  every  bough," 

verse,  1,  62. 
"Where  I  have  been,"  verse,  1,  285. 
Whip-lash,  marks  of,  in  snow,  6,  47. 
Whip-poor-will,  4,  161;    song  of,  1, 

144,   378,  2,  235,  236.  258,  485; 

time  of  singing.  259,  387.  388;  an 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


455 


inquisitive,  383;  cluck  of,  475;  seen 
by  day,  4,  54;  a  sound  niade  by,  7« 
127. 

Whirlwinds,  diminutive.  12, 172, 173. 

Whistle,  sound  of  a,  8,  449. 

Whistler.   See  Golden-eye. 

White,  of  Concord,  8,  116, 117,  126. 

White,  Mr.,  an  artist,  on  Mt.  Wash- 
ington, 11,  21. 

White,  Gilbert,  12,  157;  quoted,  5, 
65, 7,  449;  quoting  Linnseus,  5,  83. 

White,  Peregrine,  2,  364. 

White  Mountains,  T.'s  first  excursion 
to.  1,  91 ;  Dr.  Ball's  adventures  in, 

9,  259;  carriage  excursion  to,  11, 
3--62;  equipment  for  an  excursion 
in,  55,  56;  seen  from  Mt.  Monad- 
nock,  14,  40. 

White    Pond,     surveying,    2,     164; 

frozen,  3,  313;   sounding,  345. 
Whitecaps,  compared    to   sheep,  5, 

174. 
Whitefield.  George,  6,  95. 
Whiteweed,  9,  419;   frosts  meadows, 

4,  115. 
Whitlow,  Mr..  9,  66. 
Whitman,    Walt,    his    "Leaves    of 

Grass,"  9, 149. 
Whortleberries,  as  food,  14,  308;    on 

Mt.  Ida,  309.   See  also  Blueberries 

and  Huckleberries. 
Whortleberry  Family,  6,  309;    dis- 
tribution of,  14,  297,  298. 
"Wide,  Wide  World.  The."  5,  41. 
Wild,  derivation  of  the  word,  4,  482. 
Wild,  Mr.,  of  Concord,  8,  182, 9,  221, 

10,  215,  216. 

Wildcat,  or  bay  Ijrnx,  scream  of, 
heard  in  Concord,  10, 113, 212, 213; 
in  White  Mountains,  11,  16;  skins 
of,  180;  Elliott's  account  of,  14, 
316-318. 

Wild-flowers,  a  vase  of,  4, 191. 

Wilder,  Sampson,  1,  286. 

Wilderness,  man's  war  with  the,  3, 
269. 

Wildness,  in  literature,  2,  97;  in  hu- 
man life,  171;  nearness  of,  in  na- 
ture, 375;  in  nature,  best  time  for 
seeing,  3,  444. 

Wilkinson,  J.  J.  G.,  quoted,  2,  451, 
462;    his  book,  462,  463. 

Willard,  Josiah,  monument  of,  11,  3. 

Willey,  Benjamin  G.,  his  "Incidents 
in  White  Mountain  History,"  cited 
and  quoted,  11,  20,  27,  44,  59,  14, 
85. 


WiUiams,  Henry,  a  fugitive  slave.  3» 
37,38. 

Williams,  Oliver,  10,  168. 

Will-o'-the-wisp,  4,  22. 

Willow,  black  {Salix  nigra),  6,  241, 
6, 281 , 7, 54, 8, 13, 14, 327;  branches 
of,  4,  203;  badly  named,  A,  389, 
390;  a  refreshing  sight,  8,  16;  con- 
fined to  the  river-bank,  9,  20; 
sprouting  seeds  of,  463;  propaga- 
tion of,  473,  474;  its  banks  of  foli- 
age, 11, 71;  lining  the  river,  71, 72; 
haunted  by  the  kingbird,  72;  lux- 
uriant groves  of,  79;  measuring 
two  large  trees,  79,  80;  habitat  of, 
106,  114;  color  of  foliage  of.  136; 
down  of,  12,  214,  13,  373;  with 
button-bush  along  the  river,  12, 
228,  229;  the  children  of  the  river, 
259,  260;  seedhngs  of,  13,  375; 
leaves  of,  in  June,  336. 

Willow,  golden,  7,  185,  381,  382;  in 
bloom,  5, 138;  uses  of,  6,  281;  dis- 
tinguished at  a  distance,  7,  129. 

Willow,  Salix  cordata,  9,  362,  10, 
385;  autumn  colors  of,  11,  214;  a 
peculiarity  of,  252. 

Willow,  Salix  eriocephala,  6,  80,  86. 
10,  395. 

Willow,  Salix  humili»,  4,  20,  9,  340; 
old  leaves  of,  10,  367. 

Willow,  Salix  lucida,  9, 55,  56;  trans- 
planted by  ice,  399;  autumn  color 
of,  11,  245. 

Willow,  Salix  pediceUaria,  10,  445; 
autumn  color  of,  11,  245. 

WiUow,  Salix  phylicifolia,  11 ,  25  note, 
171. 

Willow,  Salix  Purahiana,  6,  402; 
beauty  of,  on  river,  4,  301;  leaves 
of,  6, 429. 

Willow,  Salix  repena,  11,  25. 

Willow,  Salix  roatrat^,  10,  427. 

Willow,  Salix  aericea,  7,  396. 

Willow,  Salix  Torreyana,  9,  461;  cat- 
kins of,  10,  422. 

Willow.  Salix  triatia,  4,  20;  blackness 
of,  10,  128. 

Willow,  Salix  Uva-urai,  11,  17. 

Willow,  weeping,  14,  327,  328. 

Willow,  white  (Salix  alba),  5,  121, 
122,  7,  337,  338,  371;  fragrance  of 
flowers  of,  4,  45;  the  first  tree  to 
make  an  impression  in  spring,  6, 
251;  a  large  one  measured,  10,  38, 
39;  in  autumn,  11, 214,  245;  priest 
of  the  sun,  12,  175,  176;  leaves  of. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


456 


INDEX 


in  June,  13,  336;  down  of,  339, 
340,  353,  354. 

Willow,  yellow,  4,  26. 

Willow  catkins,  3»  414;  seen  amid 
snow,  410;  odor  of,  432;  oovered 
with  dew,  436;  pledges  of  the  sun's 
return,  436;  feed  the  faith  of  niao, 
437;  emblem  of  qpring,  440;  Ji>urst- 
ing  forth,  458;  fragrance  of,  4«  53; 
starting  of,  in  sjmng,  5,  7;  buds 
expanded,  11,  12;  like  mice,6»  130, 
131;  peeping  out,  7,  238;  silvery, 
260.  8,  276,  12,  4,  84.  85;  blush- 
ing through  their  down,  8»  260; 
beauty  of,  10, 310;  silvery  buttons, 
310,  12,  84,  85;  swarms  of  arctic 
buds,  10,  310;  like  pearl  buttons, 
12,4;  the  fertile,  14,  328. 

Willow-cones,  3, 432,5, 49. 52, 12, 41. 

Willows,  unidentified,  3,  433,  4,  55, 
5,95.7,352.396,12,  119. 

Willows,  or  sallows,  5, 55. 145. 7, 40. 8, 
116;  price  of  wood,  ujBed  for  mak- 
ing gunpowder.  2, 267, 5,  50;  sterile 
blossoms  of  early,  3,  419,  420;  list 
of  early,  479;  a  crimson-flowered 
willow,  4,  20;  beauty  of  twigs  of. 
34,  35;  causeways  planted  with,  45; 
yellowness  of,  53;  spring  color  of 
twigs  of,  5t  15;  the  earliest  to  bloom, 
70,  71;  wariness  of  the  early,  71; 
early,  visited  by  bees,  80, 81;  a  new 
era  b^un  with,  81;  females  later  to 
blossom  than  males,  86;  diflSculty 
attending  the  study  of,  105;  rising 
above  the  ice  and  snow,  6,  86; 
twigs  of,  in  February,  91;  seeming 
antiquity  of,  113, 114;  the  promise 
of  the,  135;  increased  freshness  of 
bark  in  spring,  225;  fibrous  roots  of, 
464;  seen  by  moonlight,  7, 11;  twigs 
in  November,  71;  bark  of,  in  Febru- 
ary, 211;  misty  with  catkins,  328; 
measurements  of  a  large  willow,  8, 
144;  a  natural  hedge,  180-182;  the 
spirits  of  the  willow,  181,  182;  the 
vivacious  willow.  389;  roots  of, 
interfering  with  plowing.9,225.251; 
Hayden's  story  of  Moore's  willow 
hedge.  251 ;  Dr.  Johnson's  celebrated 
willow.  497;  green  fruit  of  the  early, 
10,  417,  418;  buds  of,  in  July.  11, 
25;  Loudon  on  certain  species, 
43;  an  ornamental  tree,  12,  35; 
blushing  twigs  of,  55,  56;  sun  on 
twigs  of,  68;  the  most  conspicu- 
ous of  the  March  flowers,  115;  wide 


distribution  of,  18,  305,  306;  seeds 
of,  14,  326,  327;  habitats  of.  327; 
good  spirits  of.  328.  329. 

Wilson,  Mrs.,  of  Cincinnati,  4,  295. 

Wilson,  Alexander,  his  "American 
Ornithology"  quoted, 5, 518,6, 193, 
7,  208,  288,  289,  297.  298,  379, 10, 
119,  456, 11,  50,  82,  167.  168,  397, 
12,  15. 17.  18, 13,  42, 419-421.  14, 
294. 

Wilson,  Horace  Hayman,  8, 134. 

Wilson,  t)r.  Thomas  B.,  7,  74  note. 

Wind,  lines  on  the  evening,  1,  72; 
form  of,  293;  waves  and.  2,  348; 
a  windy  day,  425,  426;  sound  of. 
in  the  pines,  3,  105;  an  aerial  surf, 
4,  39;  evening,  144;  in  the  tree- 
tops,  5,  492;  after  a  winter  rain  or 
thaw,  8, 179;  strength  of.  at  High- 
land Light, 0, 447;  jumping  against. 
447;  enjoyment  of.  10,  129,  130; 
March,  303;  damage  wrought  by, 
in  fruit  time,  11,  161,  162;  force 
of,  measured,  13,  214-216;  near 
the  end  of  May,  302;  blowing  in 
conformity  with  the  land,  343,  344; 
self-registering,  14,  346. 

Wine  not  a  noble  liquor,  2,  70;  as 
sung  by  a  New  England  pc3t,  433; 
absorbed  by  a  fungus,  12, 377,  378; 
age  of  the  oldest,  13,  17. 

Wine,  birch.  8,  274,  356,  384,  429. 

Winkelmann,  J.  J.,  his  "History  of 
Ancient  Art"  quoted,  9,  242,  243. 
288. 

Winslow,  General,  anecdote  about,  9, 
416.  417. 

Winsor.  of  Duxbury,  tavern-keeper. 
2,  35L 

Winter,  inwardness  of,  3,  83;  looked 
into  from  afar,  112;  a  picture  of. 
333;  sky  of,  4, 468;  spring  interests 
of,  474;  lethargies  of,  6,  38;  usee 
of,  84,  85;  reminiscence  of  summer 
in,  7,  112;  immortal  youth  of,  8, 
44;  walks  in.  9, 150;  colors  of,  153; 
a  poem,  167;  stillness  of,  172; 
evening  in,  173;  characteristic 
evening  of,  182;  walking  in,  197; 
the  year's  sabbath,  11,  393;  open- 
ing new  roads  for  the  rambler,  444; 
stillness  of,  446. 

Winterberry.   See  Prinos. 

Wintergreen.  umbelled,  or  pipsissewa 
aChimaphUa  umbellata),  5,  214,  6, 
12,  76, 7,  188;  flower  of,  4,  176, 9, 
483;   buds  of,  6,  151.  346.  9,  478; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


457 


an  ally  against  winter,  11,  223; 

our  handsomest  evergreen,  323. 
Winthrop,  Adam,  4,  487. 
Winthrop,  Gov.  John,  3,  413. 
Winthrop    house,    locating    ancient 

front  door  of,  12,  59.  See  also  Hunt 

house. 
Wisdom,  1,  200.  349;    dependent  on 

love,  348;  isolates  us,  452;  in  liv- 
ing, 4,  433.  434;  definition  of,  6, 

208,209. 
Wise,  Henry  A.,  his  estimate  of  John 

Brown,  12,  436,  437. 
Wise,  the  balloonist,  13,  23. 
Witoh-haael,  in  flower,  3,  59,  60,  ff, 

433, 435,9,84, 85. 125. 10, 100. 101. 

152,  153;   attractiveness  of,  3,  64; 

stems  of,  64;  its  leaves  in  autumn, 

64;   spray  of,  292,  5,  481,  10,  152; 

nuts  of,  12,  334;    ejecting  seeds. 


Witch  Hazel  Island,  3,  292. 

".With  cunning  plates  the  polished 
leaves  were  decked,"  verse,  1,  82. 

WithereU,  of  Concord.  6, 147, 10, 397; 
a  fish  talk  with.  398,  399. 

Withes,  birch.  3,  38.  80. 

".Within  the  circuit  of  this  plodding 
life,"  verse,  1,  304. 

*•  Witliout  inlet  it  lies,"  verse,  2,  57. 

Wolfe,  General.  2,  400. 

Wolf-traps,  ancient,  8,  35, 10,  243. 

Wolverene.  14,  232. 

Wolves,  on  Monadnock,  4,  345,  346; 
William  Wood  on,  7, 134;  old  ways 
of  catching,  8,  35, 10,  243;  in  the 
White  Mountains,  11,  44. 

Women,  animal  instincts  of,  2,  116; 
intolerant  of  reforms.  116;  as  lec- 
turers, 3,  168;  the  brains  of,  258; 
dress  of,  13,  51-53. 

Women,  young,  at  a  party,  3,  115; 
pretty,  116;  the  society  of,  116; 
a  nature-loving  young  woman,  0, 
335,336. 

Wood,  cuts  easier  in  a  thaw,  3,  244; 
the  deacon's  cord-wood  sticks,  317; 
a  method  of  keeping  up  a  pile  of, 
434;  loaded  with  gunpowder,  7, 
487;  former  prices  of,  0,  271;  un- 
necessary waste  of,  344;  from  the 
river,  10, 116;  a  connoisseur  in,  116; 
pho^horescent,  0,  490  and  note, 
11, 195, 198, 201. 202.  See  aUo  Fuel. 

Wood,  Mr.,  of  Randolph,  N.  H.,  U,  38. 

Wood,  Elijah,  2,  18,  167, 10,  50,  U, 
54;  making  trees  out  of  the  woods, 


3, 187;  his  house,  5, 152;  voice  of, 
10, 389.  390. 

Wood,  Elijah,  Sr.,  3,  412,  8,  230;  on 
the  river  floods,  4, 6;  tells  of  a  wild 
beast's  cry  heard  about  1814,  14, 
232. 

Wood,  James,  3,  187. 

Wood,  James,  Sr..  2,  234. 

Wood,  William,  his  style.  7, 108, 109; 
his  "New  England's  Prospect," 
109,  110;  quoted,  109,  110,  132- 
137,141,0,264. 

Woodbine,  climbing  an  elm,  10,  48. 

Woodchoppers,  familiar  with  the 
woods,  3,  123;  true  wage  of.  144; 
nearness  of,  to  Nature,  244,  245; 
wages  of,  369,  370;  Homeric  an- 
tiquity of,  6,  37.  See  also  Therien. 

Woodchuck.  2, 13. 6,  374, 7, 319, 338, 
339,  8,  242,  10,  434,  437  note.  U, 
122;  enemy  of  beans,  1,  364;  a 
good  native.  2,  320;  hole  of,  3,  43, 
44,  ff,  75,  494, 7,  246, 13,  272;  con- 
verse with  a,  3, 420-423;  gait  of,  4, 
27;  stones  dug  out  by,  59, 12,  118; 
hearing  pedestrians,  4,  95;  four 
young  ones,  96;  valor  of,  140;  whit- 
tle of,  172, 8,  410;  tameness  of,  4, 
176;  out  in  spring,  ff,  57;  drawn 
out  of  his  hole,  259;  frost  at  en- 
trance of  hole  of,  494;  squeak  of, 
6,  374;  boldness  of  a,  424;  diffi- 
culty in  running,  462;  origin  of  the 
name,  7,  171;  tracks  of,  249-251; 
scent  of,  342;  shape  of  body,  455, 
456;  on  guard,  8,  336;  skin  of,  used 
for  mittens,  9, 280;  called  "squash- 
beUy,"  10,  341;  a  fat,  U,  203; 
one  chasing  another,  12,  177, 178; 
wariness  of,  179;  at  bay,  195;  cap 
made  of  skin  of,  13,  166;  coming 
out  of  hole,  189;  sled  never  seen 
by,  219;  an  awkward  fellow.  283. 
284;  a  poor  runner,  304;  two  tame 
young  woodchucks,  349, 350;  stand- 
ing erect.  350. 

Woodcock.  5,  92,  8,  354.  416, 9, 183, 
10,  194,  195,  13,  205;  feeding,  3, 
83;  flight  of,  4, 209, 9,  481;  setting 
in  snow.  7,  353;  in  December,  9, 
183;  arrival  of.  12,  99;  submexged 
nest  of.  13,  252;  protective  color- 
ing of.  255. 

Woodland,  growth  of  value  of,  9, 298. 

Wood-lots,  Minott's  wood-lot,  9,  177, 
178;  the  economy  of  a  wood-lot, 
178;   a  study  of  the  planting  and 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


458 


INDEX 


Crowth  of.  14, 93. 94. 122-152, 154- 
172,  175-268,  263-273.  276,  277, 
279-281.  285-291;  sharp  practice 
in  the  sale  of,  14,  251. 

Woodpecker,  arctic  three-toed,  14, 
106. 

Woodpecker,  downy,  ff,  38,  46.  62, 
6,  122,  7,  176,  283.  8,  47,  54,  385; 
notes  of,  ff,  447, 7,  515;  appearance 
and  manner  of,  6,  54;  deals  with 
tile  bark  of  trees,  54;  confidence 
of,  91;  young  in  nest,  8,  383;  nest 
of,  383, 402, 419. 420;  winter  quar- 
ters of,  12, 458;  traces  of  his  work, 
18,  77. 

Woodpecker,  hairy,  7, 176,  283;  notes 
of,  298;  nest  and  young  of,  0,  403. 
404;  at  work,  12,  394;  hole  of.  13, 
301. 

Woodpecker,  pigeon.   Sm  Flicker. 

Woodpecker,  pileated.  mortise-holes 
bored  by.  0,  493  and  note.  See  alao 
Woodpecker,  red-headed. 

Woodpecker,  red-headed,  5,  426,  6, 
211,  9,  493.  See  alao  Woodpecker, 
pileated. 

Woodpeckers,  ff,  38;  holes  of,  in  ap- 
ple trees,  2, 120;  mortise-holes  dug 
by,  3, 235;  significance  of  visit  to  a 
wood,  329;  tapping  of,  5,  37,  94, 
133.  8,  313.  12,  35;  a  hole  for  a 
winter  lodging,  7,  104;  notes  of. 
when  heard  first  in  spring,  10, 302, 
303;  stripping  a  dead  pine,  12,  27. 

Woods,  civilization  in,  1,  252,  253; 
happiness  of,  295;  intoxication  of 
the,  2, 9. 10;  set  fire  to,  by  Thoreau, 
21-25;  benefited  by  fire.  39,  40; 
little  dramas  in  the,  98;  old  bound- 
aries in,  3, 124;  seen  before  sunrise, 
140;  question  of  decrease  of,  215; 
moonlight  effect  in,  at  3  p.  m.,  4, 
18;  seen  from  half  a  mile,  19; 
sacredness  of,  87;  fragrances  ot\ 
89;  veins  of  air  in,  160;  needed  by 
birds,  5,  169;  seen  through  a  spy- 
glass, 237;  in  "New  England's 
Prospect,"  7,  133;  running  a  line 
through,  9,  184,  185;  deserted 
halls,  311;  Concord,  historic  ground, 
10,  234;  classifications  of,  14, 
168-161,  213,  214. 

Woods  place,  at  Fairhaven,  7,  481. 

Wood-sorrel,  2,  389. 9,  370. 

Wool-grass,  ff,  606,  529. 8,  3, 10,  494, 
495,  11,  83,  127,  128;  in  snow.  9, 
219;  seeds  of ,  13, 45. 


Worcester,  lecturing  in,  2,  224, 7,  99, 
11, 453, 457;  corporations  in,  2, 225; 
visit  to,  10,  440-442,  14,  339,  340. 

Words,  integrity  of,  1,  210,  211; 
moose-lipped,  2,  443;  torpid,  4, 
226;  discussion  of  true,  467;  use 
of,  5,  43;  last,  9,  151 ;  genuine  and 
spurious,  10,  233;  false,  261,  262; 
history  in,  294,  295;  for  describing 
natural  objects,  13,  146,  146. 

Wordsworth,  William,  1, 310;  quoted, 
139  and  note,  10,  240  and  note; 
epic  life  of.  1, 407. 408;  heroism  of, 
431 ;  cold  mention  of  natural  scenes, 
2,  295;  on  relaxed  attention,  3, 
123. 

Work,  by  machinery  and  by  hand 
compared,    11,  227. 

World,  the,  in  widow's  thirds,  4,  77; 
forever  beginning  and  coming  to 
an  end,  6,  31;  causes  of  ultimate 
destruction  of,  102. 

Worms,  2, 310;  intestinal,  in  a  mouse, 

8,  362;   etching  done  in  wood  by, 

9,  297;  man's  dislike  of,  12,  304; 
frozen  in  the  ice,  13,  47,  48.  See 
alao  Fishworms. 

Worm-seed.  3,  72. 
Wormwood,  4,  250,  266. 
Wormwood,  Roman,  2,  473,  ff,  391. 

See  alao  Ambrosia,  tall. 
Worship,  of  stocks  and  stones,  9,  46; 

constraints  of  all,  352. 
Wreck,  a  deserted,  0,  439,  440. 
Wreckers.  6,  18. 
Wren,  golden-crested.  7,  331, 332. 13, 

48,49;  notes  of ,  48.  49. 
Wren,  marsh,  12,  270;  nest  of,  270. 
Wren,  ruby-crowned,  6,  220,  243.  7, 

361;    song  of,  6,  220,  7,  361.  10, 

387. 
Wren,  short-billed  marsh,  song  of,  11, 

74. 
Wren,  winter, 6, 191 ,  220. 11, 34  note. 
Wrestling,  8,  245.  246. 
Wright,  overseer  on  Daniel  Webster's 

farm,  2,  361. 
Wright,  Mr.,  of  the  factory  village, 

10,406. 
Wright,  Anthony,  2,  288.  7,  69,  224. 

8,  207;  talk  with,  366. 
Wright,  H.  C,  5,  263,  264. 
Writing,  effect  of   inactivity  on,  2, 

406;  too  great  fullness  in,  418;  with 

gusto,  441;  on  heavy  subjects,  467; 

the  measure  of  self-respect.  463; 

styles  in,  480;  terra  Urma  in»  3, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


INDEX 


459 


107, 108;  crude,  121;  self-exptresidoi^ 
in,  140;  faithfulness  to  genius  in, 
144;  discipline  for,  156,  157;  seiz- 
ing all  opportunities  for,  221;  care 
in.  231;  themes  for,  246,  14,  330: 
on  chosen  themes,  3, 253;  personal- 
ity in,  276;  ornaments  to,  278;  strik- 
ing while  the  iron  is  hot,  203;  morn- 
ing and  evening  as  themes  of,  320; 
by  moonlight.  5,  278;  time  lost  in, 
7,  80;  true  theme  for,  0,  121;  art 
of,  195;  directions  for  accuracy  in, 
300,  306;  from  memory,  accurate, 
311;  form  in,  10«  206;  an  absorb- 
ing occupation,  263;  a  correspond- 
ent or  companion  a  help  in,  11, 120; 
improving  the  soil  for,  304;  gram- 
mar and  style  in,  386;  the  process 
of.  438,  430;  familiarity  with  the 
subject  of,  necessary,  446;  its  ef- 
fect on  character,  452;  weeding  out 
poor  passages  in,  452;  a  guide  for, 
12,  39;  correct  English,  13,  125; 
thought  breeding  thought  in,  145. 
See  aleo  Composition. 

Wyman,  the  potter,  1,  420. 

Wyman,  John,  10,  168. 

Xyris.  4,  228. 5,  335. 

Yankee,  the,  proper  region  of,  3,  72. 

YarreU,  William,  7,  288-290. 

Yarrow,  4, 193;  beauty  of,  8,  28. 

"Ye  do  commend  me  to  all  virtue 
ever,"  verse,  1,  479. 

Years  of  the  gods,  1,  263,  264. 

Yellow,  in  spring,  4,  27;  contrast 
between  spring  and  autumnal,  108; 
shades  of,  in  spring  flowers,  5, 184; 
among  Orientals.  10,  99;  of  vege- 
tation. 282;  of  September,  11,  149; 
prevalence  of,  in  nature,  12,  322; 
of  sedges  in  a  river  valley,  14,  4,  5. 

Yellowbird,  summer,  advent  of,  4, 


32;  songs  of.  32,  35.  134.  146, 10, 
447;  haunting  tiie  willows,  4,  53, 
5, 134;  young  of,  290;  nest  of.  302, 
7,  428,  429.  8,  120. 10,  450;  build- 
ing a  nest,  7,  400;  feigning  injury. 
425. 
YeUow-legs,  or  telltale,  4,  328, 5,  452, 

7,  381,  393. 12, 104,  149.  355;  notes 
of,  5,  452,  7,  450.  U,  151. 12,  355. 
410,  411. 

Yellow-l^s,  greater,  or  greater  tell- 
tale, 6,  318;  notes  of.  318. 10,  432; 
a  sailing  flock  of,  7,  41. 

YeUow-legs,  lesser  {Totanua  flavipee), 
11,  167. 

Yellow-throat,  Maryland,  4, 40,  53, 5, 
109. 13, 299;  songs  of.  4, 35,  ff,  124. 

8,  347, 11,  74;  nest  of.  5,  231,  291. 
7,  411  and  note,  9,  409,  410  and 
note,  466. 10,  489;  leaving  nest,  7, 
411  note;  warbling  of  young,  0, 14; 
a  shy,  410  note. 

Yew,  American,  or  ground-hemlock 
{Taxue  Canadeneie),  10,  306;  ber- 
ries of,  4,  302, 0,  68, 11,  90,  91. 12, 
314.  315;  new  leaves  of,  13,  335, 
336. 

Yezidis,  2,  35. 

Yogin.  the,  2,  191. 

"Young  Voyageurs,  The."  6, 168. 

Youth,  joyousness  of,  1,  59;  should 
endure,  206;  remembrance  of,  2, 
33;  memories  of,  237,  238;  expe- 
riences of,  306,  307;  the  fountain 
of,  315;  attitude  toward  Nature  in. 
3, 378;  architecture  of.  4, 227;  sub- 
lime egoism  of,  5,  75 ;  poetry  and, 
10,  202;  the  divinity  of,  13,  35. 

Zilpha,  1,  420,  429.  430. 

Ziyad,  governor  of  Bassora,  2,  190. 

Zizania  aquatica,  4,  297,  362, 6»  408. 

426. 
Zoroaster,  1,  371. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


EUctroiyPtd  and  Printed  by  H .  O.  HoughUm  A*  Co. 
Cambridge t  Mass-^  U.S.  A, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


THE  BORROWER  WILL  BF  CHARGED 
AN  OVERDUE  FEE  IFTHIS  BOOK  IS  NOT 
RETURNED  TO  THE  LIBRARY  ON  OR 
BEF0liE  THE  LAST  DATE  STAxMPED 
BELOW.  NON-RECEIPT  OF  OVERDUE 
NOTICES  DOES  NOT  EXEMPT  THE 
BORROJUjR  FROM^ 
