al a iy, eee ll , tt, a | - wr J a il) ee ’ ¥ bd ae . - -% tee aed a ~ = ~ ee ee 
eel thes alte) ene Steak bie en tn ee ee ee oh leet ee pee " * a e —_—) a hee | ’ = ‘i _ we - e ry Aig od W a) Pate - ited = Ln. 
atl gl aden DLs EM 5 iPreree ae haplne alka hee en Meee eet ET eee ee el ee ae er fev be Bae ped ye 5 i ae al « see RS On Oe ne lly Te gem 
le he Bs ees nT ek ee ee es = 8 es ee ae eee eo ee . i 1? i at oO > al Se aie se Lara el tee aie tae eet alee ae he 
chet ee i ee eee ee on ee ee ee sk ee ee he indie mah ke teed, alae a en oe Ni 4et eo see + A * ee - 5 me te wo hte a ee ee ee 
eee pe dl ate aids ai, ae en pe ee ee hie Li eae Ls | sod See a = Bre ‘a ae . a aa) LT ee a Te eee i 4 ok S =n hp S Nag dh ti 
oe ee ee ee ee ed ee ae oe ol aa" be ae ee ee BL, el Oe 8 Dee Me Bow ot 6 ~e* A De a oe le 
ete Aad tak dt Sk ce Ak ee ee oe == t7F i ee et SS : - F ~—~~ee le wbae i * “—_ fe ew nie spe Pes 
i he ie a ae Pe ee ee ere oe th en ee a en 2 °. - W-< eee rT A A Ti ee See ay vet Ba ce 
abet idte le Aah Pe on a te” te Po Le I DD ee ly “hh be ala ae 8 a x ee “ey r 3 - Sb gfeqa d_ a. dings -  * > ter , awe ce 
re Sat Erne art a Pea hy Cet ede <6 ey A dts Sel eh ee A i ee be f , ve wet - - Fob m a Ci ae . ets sted ries te 
f ae en a a te i Pere le nn . os ~ . 7 a “ i- a me - = rr 5 $a 
75 tn yn aggre nia Dan, 1 35 haem Larne! teh Melia eh wr et Bel tl ae = oes aa t te ' 7 ed _ a > em ity wre” este 
ei a ee ea) (may a bel ED ed fl ee ee ee a es y » - em fe a i Ye - el ” o “= *- 
btn hs Nd oll ne i aa ita cuetien Pas et bah deed ae in it a ~_ = 7 - — _ _ “* ee ~ = * a ee er 
Me Ml a ee ‘- ~~ = 8 ay i Sf.tee pa — m — ay A - = " - A Ren 4 er’ ; ls a 
ge ag, tnt te Lite ae Pl bs iil me ee . J en A a ‘ow . - one dh ee bm eaten, mm SS _ - << - —S betters. 
> a f . > : . . r “ : 


- a —. ‘ r . 
Se eet ee | ae a 7 Oe hed atin wT ys: = - , ~n 2 - | a j - iT a meat. 


- i . = ‘ oD re 


FN OARS AD Lie RA om as -.% A 
Se) 





ost ndeli sted ected ae af. AD) Pe eek eles Oe ee a ah he Be Patt seh thats oe ie lef 








te mdeiee ek ak. eS ee tee , Ve ‘ ee —— a —- Dstt Te Neate) cae ‘2 1" - + ns = ene po vee: 
ee es : : ws = . . ° Aid > ne arm poe) ad ay gm —— nna, Omens - = er = ee RR Re Re + ee 
,_ 4 


rat i= Gert ew * Tks 


. i vat 


- 
a 
ae 
flea 


3 ‘ 
4 1 
s 
' ‘i ; 
; rf 
° x e 
i 
te . i 
- bee 
3 
t ’ 
; 3 


as 


eal 


a-o 


. 
Zé a 


» 
Vee ‘ th oy \ 
. ; ; 
- 

Ps 
oe ‘ 
ee 
ue wl 
7s .* 
‘ Vv 


4 








¢ 
~ > [ 
- ¢ E 
a 
e - 
. 
_¢ 











By THE Same AuTHor. 


Plays Pleasant and 
Unpleasant 
IN TWO VOLUMES. 


With Portrait in Photogravure. 
Crown 8vo, Cloth, 65. each. 


Vor. I.—UnpLeasanT. 


Preface—Mainly about Myself. 
Widowers’ Houses, 

The Philanderer. 

Mrs, Warren’s Profession. 


Vor. II.—PLeEasanrT, 


Preface—continued. 
Arms and the Man, 
Candida. 

The Man of Destiny. 
You Never Can Tell. 


The Perfect Wagnerite 
Crown 8v0, Cloth, 35. 6d. 


Preliminary Encouragements. — The 
Four Evenings of The Ring.— 
Wagner as Revolutionist.—Sieg- 
fried as Protestant. — Wagner’s 
Own Explanation. — The Music 
of The Ring.—The Old and the 
New Music.—The Music of The 
Future.—Bayreuth, 


Lonpon: GRANT RICHARDS, 
9 Henrietta St. Covent Garden, W.C. 


/ 
4 


z 





we 


Three Plays for Purt- 
tans: [The Devil’s Dis- 
ciple, Caesar and Cleo- 
patra, & Captain Brass- 
bound’s Conversion. By 
Bernard Shaw. 


London: Grant Richards, 
g Henrietta St. Covent 
Garden, W.C. 1got. 


REFLACING 


THREE PLAYS FOR PURITANS 


WHY FOR PURITANS? 


Since I gave my Plays, Pleasant and Unpleasant, to the 
world two years ago, many things have happened to me. I 
had then just entered on the fourth year of my activity as 
a critic of the London theatres. They very nearly killed 
me. I had survived seven years of London’s music, four 
or five years of London’s pictures, and about as much of its 
current literature, wrestling critically with them with all 
my force and skill. After that, the criticism of the theatre 
came to me as a huge relief in point of bodily exertion. 
The difference between the leisure of a Persian cat and the 
labor of a cockney cab horse is not greater than the differ- 
ence between the official weekly or fortnightly playgoings 
of the theatre critic and the restless daily rushing to and 
fro of the music critic, from the stroke of three in the after- 
noon, when the concerts begin, to the stroke of twelve at 
night, when the opera ends. The pictures were nearly as 
bad. An Alpinist once, noticing the massive soles of my 
boots, asked me whether I climbed mountains. No, I re- 
plied : these boots are for the hard floors of the London 
galleries. Yet I once dealt with music and pictures to- 
gether in the spare time of an active young revolutionist, 
and wrote plays and books and other toilsome things into 


MEBe arg 


MSR Dera Fea 


v1 Three Plays for Puritans 


the bargain. But the theatre struck me down like the 
veriest weakling. I sank underit like a baby fed on starch. 
My very bones began to perish, so that I had to get them 
planed and gouged by accomplished surgeons, I fell from 
heights and broke my limbs in pieces. The doctors said : 
This man has not eaten meat for twenty years: he must 
eat it or die. I said: This man has been going to the 
London theatres for three years; and the soul of him has 
become inane and is feeding unnaturally on his body. And 
I was right. I did not change my diet ; but I had myself 
carried up into a mountain where there was no theatre ; 
and there I began to revive. ‘Too weak to work, I wrote 
books and plays: hence the second and third plays in this 
volume. And now I am stronger than I have been at any 
moment since my feet first carried me as a critic across the 
fatal threshold of a London playhouse. 

Why was this? What is the matter with the theatre, 
that a strong man can die of it? Well, the answer will make 
a long story; but it must be told. And, to begin, why have 
I just called the theatre a playhouse? ‘The well-fed Eng- 
lishman, though he lives and dies a schoolboy, cannot play. 
He cannot even play cricket or football: he has to work 
at them: that is why he beats the foreigner who plays at 
them. To him playing means playing the fool. He can 
hunt and shoot and travel and fight: he can, when special 
holiday festivity is suggested to him, eat and drink, dice 
and drab, smoke and lounge. But play he cannot. The 
moment you make his theatre a place of amusement instead 
of a place of edification, you make it, not a real playhouse, 
but a place of excitement for the sportsman and the 
sensualist. 

However, this well-fed grown-up-schoolboy Englishman 
counts for little in the modern metropolitan audience. In 
the long lines of waiting playgoers lining the pavements 
outside our fashionable theatres every evening, the men are 
only the currants in the dumpling. Women are in the 
majority ; and women and men alike belong to that least 


Why for Puritans? Vii 


robust of all our social classes, the class which earns trom 
eighteen to thirty shillings a week in sedentary employ- 
ment, and lives in a dull lodging or with its intolerably 
prosaic families. ‘These people preserve the innocence of 
the theatre: they have neither the philosopher’s impa- 
tience to get to realities (reality being the one thing they 
want to escape from), nor the longing of the sportsman for 
violent action, nor the fullfed, experienced, disillusioned 
sensuality of the rich man, whether he be gentleman or 
sporting publican. They read a good deal, and are at home 
in the fool’s paradise of popular romance. They love the 
pretty man and the pretty woman, and will have both 
of them fashionably dressed and exquisitely idle, posing 
against backgrounds of drawingroom and dainty garden ; 
in love, but sentimentally, romantically; always ladylike 
and gentlemanlike. Jejunely insipid, all this, to the stalls, 
which are paid for (when they are paid for) by people who 
have their own dresses and drawingrooms, and know them 
to be a mere masquerade behind which there is nothing 
romantic, and little that is interesting to most of the mas- 
queraders except the clandestine play of natural licentious- 
ness. 

The stalls cannot be fully understood without taking 
into account the absence of the rich evangelical English 
merchant and his family, and the presence of the rich 
Jewish merchant and Ais family. I can see no validity 
whatever in the view that the influence of the rich Jews 
on the theatre is any worse than the influence of the rich 
of any other race. Other qualities being equal, men be- 
come rich in commerce in proportion to the intensity and 
exclusiveness of their desire for money. It may be a mis- 
fortune that the purchasing power of men who value money 
above art, philosophy, and the welfare of the whole com- 
munity, should enable them to influence the theatre (and 
everything else in the market) ; but there is no reason to 
suppose that their influence is any nobler when they 
imagine themselves Christians than when they know them- 


Vill Three Plays for Puritans 

selves Jews. All that can fairly be said of the Jewish 
influence on the theatre is that it is exotic, and is not only 
a customer’s influence but a financier’s influence: so much 
so, that the way is smoothest for those plays and those per- 
formers that appeal specially to the Jewish taste. English 
influence on the theatre, as far as the stalls are concerned, 
does not exist, because the rich purchasing-powerful Eng- 
lishman prefers politics and church-going: his soul is too 
stubborn to be purged by an avowed make-believe. When 
he wants sensuality he practises it: he does not play with 
voluptuous or romantic ideas. From the play of ideas— 
and the drama can never be anything more—he demands 
edification, and will not pay for anything else in that arena. 
Consequently the box office will never become an English 
influence until the theatre turns from the drama of romance 
and sensuality to the drama of edification. 

Turning from the stalls to the whole auditorium, con- 
sider what is implied by the fact that the prices (all much 
too high, by the way) range from half a guinea to a shil- 
ling, the ages from eighteen to eighty, whilst every age, 
and nearly every price, represents a different taste. Is it 
not clear that this diversity in the audience makes it im- 
possible to gratify every one of its units by the same 
luxury, since in that domain of infinite caprice, one man’s 
meat is another man’s poison, one age’s longing another 
age’s loathing? And yet that is just what the theatres kept 
trying to do almost all the time I was doomed to attend 
them. On the other hand, to interest people of divers ages 
classes and temperaments by some generally momentous 
subject of thought, as the politicians and preachers do, 
would seem the most obvious course in the world. And 
yet the theatres avoided that as a ruinous eccentricity. 
Their wiseacres persisted in assuming that all men have 
the same tastes, fancies, and qualities of passion; that no 
two have the same interests ; and that most playgoers have 
no interests at all. This being precisely contrary to the 
obvious facts, it followed that the majority of the plays pro- 


Why for Puritans? 1X 


duced were failures, recognizable as such before the end of 
the first act by the very wiseacres aforementioned, who, 
quite incapable of understanding the lesson, would there- 
upon set to work to obtain and produce a play applying 
their theory still more strictly, with proportionately more 
disastrous results. ‘The sums of money I saw thus trans- 
ferred from the pockets of theatrical speculators and syn- 
dicates to those of wigmakers, costumiers, scene painters, 
carpenters, doorkeepers, actors, theatre landlords, and all 
the other people for whose exclusive benefit most London 
theatres seem to exist, would have kept a theatre devoted 
exclusively to the highest drama open all the year round. 
If the Browning and Shelley Societies were fools, as the 
wiseacres said they were, for producing Strafford, Colombe’s 
Birthday, and The Cenci; if the Independent Theatre, 
the New Century Theatre, and the Stage Society are 1m- 
practicable faddists for producing the plays of Ibsen and 
Maeterlinck, then what epithet is contemptuous enough 
for the people who produce the would-be popular plays? 
The actor-managers were far more successful, because 
they produced plays that at least pleased themselves, wherc- 
as the others, with a false theory of how to please every- 
body, produced plays that pleased nobody. But their 
occasional personal successes in voluptuous plays, and, in 
any case, their careful concealment of failure, confirmed 
the prevalent error, which was only exposed fully when 
the plays had to stand or fall openly by their own merits. 
Even Shakespear was played with his brains cut out. In 
1896, when Sir Henry Irving was disabled by an accident 
at a moment when Miss Ellen Terry was too ill to 
appear, the theatre had to be closed after a brief attempt 
to rely on the attraction of a Shakespearean play performed 
by the stock company. This may have been Shakespear’s 
fault: indeed Sir Henry later on complained that he 
had lost a princely sum by Shakespear. But Shakespear’s 
reply to this, if he were able to make it, would be that 
the princely sum was spent, not on his dramatic poetry, but 


x Three Plays for Puritans 


ona gorgeous stage ritualism superimposed on reckless muti- 
lations of his text, the whole being addressed to a public as 
to which nothing is certain except that its natural bias is 
towards reverence for Shakespear and dislike and distrust 
of ritualism. No doubt the Lyceum ritual appealed to a 
far more cultivated sensuousness and imaginativeness than 
the musical farces in which our stage Abbots of Misrule 
pontificated (with the same financially disastrous result) ; 
but in both there was the same intentional brainlessness, 
founded on the same theory that the public did not want 
brains, did not want to think, did not want anything but 
pleasure at the theatre. Unfortunately, this theory hap- 
pens to be true of a certain section of the public. This 
section, being courted by the theatres, went to them and 
drove the other people out. It then discovered, as any ex- 
pert could have foreseen, that the theatre cannot compete 
in mere pleasuremongering either with the other arts or 
with matter-of-fact gallantry. Stage pictures are the worst 
pictures, stage music the worst music, stage scenery the 
worst scenery within reach of the Londoner. The leading 
lady or gentleman may be as tempting to the admirer in the 
pit as the dishes in a cookshop window are to the penniless 
tramp on the pavement; but people do not, I presume, go 
to the theatre to be merely tantalized. 

The breakdown on the last point was conclusive. For 
when the managers tried to put their principle of pleasing 
everybody into practice, Necessity, ever ironical towards 
Folly, had driven them to seek a universal pleasure to appeal 
to. And since many have no ear for music or eye for color, 
the search for universality inevitably flung the managers 
back on the instinct of sex as the avenue to all hearts. Of 
course the appeal was a vapid failure. Speaking for my 
own sex, I can say that the leading lady was not to every- 
body’s taste : her pretty face often became ugly when she 
tried to make it expressive ; her voice lost its charm (if it 
ever had any) when she had nothing sincere to say; and 
the stalls, from racial prejudice, were apt to insist on more 


Why for Puritans? XI 


Rebecca and less Rowena than the pit cared for. It may 
seem strange, even monstrous, that a man should feel a 
constant attachment to the hideous witches in Macbeth, 
and yet yawn at the prospect of spending another evening 
in the contemplation of a beauteous young leading lady 
with voluptuous contours and longlashed eyes, painted and 
dressed to perfection in the latest fashions. But that is just 
what happened to me in the theatre. 

TI did not find that matters were improved by the lady 
pretending to be “‘a woman with a past,” violently over- 
sexed, or the play being called a problem play, even when 
the manager, and sometimes, I suspect, the very author, 
firmly believed the word problem to be the latest euphemism 
for what Justice Shallow called a bona roba, and certainly 
would not either of them have staked a farthing on the 
interest of a genuine problem. In fact these so-called 
problem plays invariably depended for their dramatic 
interest on foregone conclusions of the most heartwearying 
conventionality concerning sexual morality. The authors 
had no problematic views: all they wanted was to capture 
some of the fascination of Ibsen. It seemed to them that 
most of Ibsen’s heroines were naughty ladies. And they 
tried to produce Ibsen plays by making their heroines 
naughty. But they took great care to make them pretty 
and expensively dressed. Thus the pseudo-Ibsen play was 
nothing but the ordinary sensuous ritual of the stage become 
as frankly pornographic as good manners allowed. 

I found that the whole business of stage sensuousness, 
whether as Lyceum Shakespear, musical farce, or sham 
Ibsen, finally disgusted me, not because I was Pharisaical, 
or intolerantly refined, but because I was bored ; and bore- 
dom is a condition which makes men as susceptible to 
disgust and irritation as headache makes them to noise and 
glare. Being a man, I have my share of the masculine 
silliness and vulgarity on the subject of sex which so 
astonishes women, to whom sex is a serious matter. I am 
not an Archbishop, and do not pretend to pass my life on 


Xil Three Plays for Puritans 


one plane or in one mood, and that the highest: on the 
contrary, I am, I protest, as accessible to the humors of The 
Rogue’s Comedy or The Rake’s Progress as to the pious 
decencies of The Sign of the Cross. Thus Falstaff, coarser 
than any of the men in our loosest plays, does not bore me: 
Doll Tearsheet, more abandoned than any of the women, 
does not shock me. I think that Romeo and Juliet would 
be a poorer play if it were robbed of the solitary fragment 
it has preserved for us of the conversation of the husband 
of Juliet’s nurse. No: my disgust was not mere thinskinned 
prudery. When my moral sense revolted, as it often did to 
the very fibres, it was invariably at the nauseous compliances 
of the theatre with conventional virtue. If I despised the 
musical farces, it was because they never had the courage 
of their vices. With all their labored efforts to keep up 
an understanding of furtive naughtiness between the low 
comedian on the stage and the drunken undergraduate in 
the stalls, they insisted all the time on their virtue and 
patriotism and loyalty as pitifully as a poor girl of the 
pavement will pretend to bea clergyman’s daughter. True, 
I may have been offended when a manager, catering for me 
with coarse frankness as a slave dealer caters for a Pasha, 
invited me to forget the common bond of humanity 
between me and his company by demanding nothing from 
them but a gloatably voluptuous appearance. But this ex- 
treme is never reached at our better theatres. The shop 
assistants, the typists, the clerks, who, as I have said, pre- 
serve the innocence of the theatre, would not dare to let 
themselves be pleased by it. Even if they did, they would 
not get it from the managers, who, when they are brought to 
the only logical conclusion from their principle of making 
the theatre a temple of pleasure, indignantly refuse to 
change the dramatic profession for Mrs Warren’s. For 
that is what all this demand for pleasure at the theatre 
finally comes to ; and the answer to it is, not that people 
ought not to desire sensuous pleasure (they cannot help 
it) but that the theatre cannot give it to them, even to 


Why for Puritans? XH 
the extent permitted by the honor and conscience of the 
best managers, because a theatre is so far from being a 
pleasant or even a comfortable place that only by mak- 
ing us forget ourselves can it prevent us from realizing 
its inconveniences. A play that does not do this for the 
pleasure-seeker allows him to discover that he has chosen 
a disagreeable and expensive way of spending the evening. 
He wants to drink, to smoke, to change the spectacle, to get 
rid of the middle-aged actor and actress who are boring 
him, and to see shapely young dancing girls and acrobats 
doing more amusing things in a more plastic manner. In 
short, he wants the music hall ; and he goes there, leaving 
the managers astonished at this unexpected but quite in- 
evitabie result of the attempt to please him. Whereas, had 
he been enthralled by the play, even with horror, instead 
of himself enthralling with the dread of his displeasure the 
manager, the author and the actors, all had been well. And 
so we must conclude that the theatre is a place which 
people can only endure when they forget themselves: that 
is, when their attention is entirely captured, their interest 
thoroughly roused, their sympathies raised to the eagerest 
readiness, and their selfishness utterly annihilated. Imagine, 
then, the result of conducting theatres on the principle of 
appealing exclusively to the instinct of self-gratification in 
people without power of attention, without interests, with- 
out sympathy, in short, without brains or heart. That is 
how they were conducted whilst I was writing about them ; 
and that is how they nearly killed me, | 

Yet the managers mean well. Their self-respect is in 
excess rather than in defect ; for they are in full reaction 
against the Bohemianism of past generations of actors, and 
so bent on compelling social recognition by a blameless re- 
spectability, that the drama, neglected in the struggle, is only 
just beginning to stir feebly after standing stock-still in Eng- 
land from Robertson’s time in the sixties until the first actor 
was knighted in the nineties. The manager may not want 
good plays; but he does not want bad plays : he wants nice 


XIV Three Plays for Puritans 


ones. Nice plays, with nice dresses, nice drawingrooms and 
nice people, are indispensable : to be ungenteel 1s worse than 
to fail. I use the word ungenteel purposely ; for the stage 
presents life on thirty pounds a day, not as it is, but as it is 
conceived by the earners of thirty shillings a week. The 
real thing would shock the audience exactly as the man- 
ners of the public school and university shock a Board of 
Guardians. In just the same way, the plays which consti- 
tute the genuine aristocracy of modern dramatic literature 
shock the reverence for gentility which governs our theatres 
today. For instance, the objection to Ibsen is not really 
an objection to his philosophy: it is a protest against the 
fact that his characters do not behave as ladies and gentle- 
men are popularly supposed to behave. If you adore Hedda 
Gabler in real life, if you envy her and feel that nothing but 
your poverty prevents you from being as exquisite a creature, 
if you know that the accident of matrimony (say with an 
oficer of the guards who falls in love with you across the 
counter whilst you are reckoning the words in his telegram) 
may at any moment put you in her place, Ibsen’s expostce 
of the worthlessness and meanness of her life is cruel and 
blasphemous to you. ‘This point of view 1s not caught by the 
clever ladies of Hedda’s own class, who recognize the por- 
trait, applaud its painter, and think the fuss against Ibsen 
means nothing more than the conventional disapproval of 
her discussions of a ménage a trois with Judge Brack. A little 
experience of popular plays would soon convince these clever 
ladies that a heroine who atones in the last act by commit- 
ting suicide may do all the things that Hedda only talked 
about, without a word of remonstrance from the press or the 
public. It is not murder, not adultery, not rapine that is 
objected to: quite the contrary. It is an unladylike atti- 
tude towards life: in other words, a disparagement of the 
social ideals of the poorer middle class and of the vast rein- 
forcementsit has had from the working class during the last 
twenty years. Let but the attitude of the author be gentle- 
manlike, and his heroines may do what they please. Mrs 


Why for Puritans? XV 


Tanqueray was received with delight by the public: Saint 
Teresa would have been hissed off the same stage for her 
contempt for the ideal represented by a carriage, a fashion- 
able dressmaker, and a dozen servants. 

Here, then, is a pretty problem for the manager. He is 
convinced that plays must depend for their dramatic force 
on appeals to the sex instinct; and yet he owes it to his own 
newly conquered social position that they shall be perfectly 
genteel plays, fit for churchgoers. The sex instinct must 
therefore proceed upon genteel assumptions. Impossible ! 
you will exclaim. But you are wrong: nothing is more 
astonishing than the extent to which, in real life, the sex 
instinct does so proceed, even when the consequence is its 
lifelong starvation. Few of us have vitality enough to make 
any of our instincts imperious : we can be made to live on 
pretences, as the masterful minority well know. But the 
timid majority, if it rules nowhere else, at least rules in the 
theatre : fitly enough too, because on the stage pretence is 
all that can exist. Life has its realities behind its shows : 
the theatre has nothing but itsshows. But can the theatre 
make a show of lovers’ endearments? A thousand times 
no: perish the thought of such unladylike, ungentleman- 
like exhibitions. You can have fights, rescues, conflagra- 
tions, trials-at-law, avalanches, murders and executions all 
directly simulated on the stage if you will. But any such 
realistic treatment of the incidents of sex is quite out of the 
question. ‘The singer, the dramatic dancer, the exquisite 
declaimer of impassioned poesy, the rare artist who, bring- 
ing something of the art of all three to the ordinary work 
of the theatre, can enthral an audience by the expression of 
dramatic feeling alone, may take love for a theme on the 
stage ; but the prosaic walking gentlemen of our fashion- 
able theatres, realistically simulating the incidents of life, 
cannot touch it without indecorum. 

Can any dilemma be more complete? Love is assumed 
to be the only theme that touches all your audience in- 
fallibly, young and old, rich and poor. And yet love is 


XV1 Three Plays for Puritans 


the one subject that the drawingroom drama dare not 
present. 

Out of this dilemma, which 1s a very old one, has come 
the romantic play: that is, the play in which love is care- 
fully kept off the stage, whilst it is alleged as the motive 
of all the actions presented to the audience. The result 
is, to me at least, an intolerable perversion of human con- 
duct. There are two classes of stories that scem to me to 
be not only fundamentally false but sordidly base. One is 
the pseudo-religious story, in which the hero or heroine 
does good on strictly commercial grounds, reluctantly exer- 
cising a little virtue on earth in consideration of receiving 
in return an exorbitant payment in heaven: much as if an 
odalisque were to allcw a cadi to whip her for a couple of 
millions in gold. The other is the romance in which the 
‘hero, also rigidly commercial, will do nothing except for 
the sake of the heroine. Surely this is as depressing as it 
is unreal. Compare with it the treatment of love, frankly 
indecent according to our notions, in oriental fiction. In 
The Arabian Nights we have a series of stories, some of 
them very good ones, in which no sort of decorum is 
observed. The result is that they are infinitely morc in- 
structive and enjoyable than our romances, because love is 
treated in them as naturally as any other passion. There 
is no cast iron convention as to its effects ; no false associa- 
tion of general depravity of character with its corporealities 
or of general elevation with its sentimentalities ; no pre- 
tence that a man or woman cannot be courageous and kind 
and friendly unless infatuatedly in love with somebody (is no 
poet manly enough to sing The Old Maids of England ?) : 
rather, indeed, an insistence on the blinding and narrowing 
power of lovesickness to make princely heroes unhappy 
and unfortunate. These tales expose, further, the delusion 
that the interest of this most capricious, most transient, 
most easily baffled of all instincts, is inexhaustible, and 
that the field of the English romancer has been cruelly 
narrowed by the restrictions under which he is permitted 


Why for Puritans? XV1l 


to deal with it. The Arabian storyteller, relieved of all 
such restrictions, heaps character on character, adventure 
on adventure, marvel on marvel ; whilst the English novel- 
ist, like the starving tramp who can think of nothing but 
his hunger, seems to be unable to escape from the obsession 
of sex, and will rewrite the very gospels because the 
originals are not written in the sensuously ecstatic style. 
At the instance of Martin Luther we long ago gave up 
imposing celibacy on our priests ; but we still impose it on 
our art, with the very undesirable and unexpected result 
that no editor, publisher, or manager, will now accept a 
story or produce a play without “love interest” in it. 
Take, for a recent example, Mr H. G. Wells’s War of 
Two Worlds, a tale of the invasion of the earth by the 
inhabitants of the planet Mars: a capital story, not to be 
laid down until finished. Love interest is impossible on 
its scientific plane: nothing could be more impertinent 
and irritating. Yet Mr Wells has had to pretend that 
the hero is in love with a young lady manufactured for the 
purpose, and to imply that it is on her account alone that 
he feels concerned about the apparently inevitable destruc- 
tion of the human race by the Martians. Another example. 
An American novelist, recently deceased, made a hit some 
years ago by compiling a Bostonian Utopia from the pro- 
spectuses of the little bands of devout Communists who 
have from time to time, since the days of Fourier and 
Owen, tried to establish millennial colonies outside our 
commercial civilization. Even in this economic Utopia 
we find the inevitable love affair. The hero, waking 
up in a distant future from a miraculous sleep, meets a 
Boston young lady, provided expressly for him to fall in 
love with. Women have by that time given up wearing 
skirts ; but she, to spare his delicacy, gets one out of a 
museum of antiquities to wear in his presence until he is 
hardened to the customs of the new age. When I came to 
that touching incident, I became as Paolo and Francesca: 
“jn that book I read no more.” J will not multiply 


XV11l Three Plays for Puritans 


examples : if such unendurable follies occur in the sort of 
story made by working out a meteorologic or economic 
hypothesis, the extent to which it is carried in sentimental 
romances needs no expatiation. 

The worst of it is that since man’s intellectual conscious- 
ness of himself is derived from the descriptions of him in 
books, a persistent misrepresentation of humanity in litera- 
ture gets finally accepted and acted upon. If every mirror 
reflected our noses twice their natural size, we should live 
and die in the faith that we were all Pinehes: ; and we 
should scout a true mirror as the work of a fool, madman, 
or jester. Nay, I believe we should, by Lamarckian 
adaptation, enlarge our noses to the admired size; for I 
have noticed that when a certain type of feature appears in 
painting and is admired as beautiful, it presently becomes 
common in nature; so that the Beatrices and Francescas 
in the picture galleries of one generation, to whom minor 
poets address verses entitled To My Lady, come to life as 
the parlormaids and waitresses of the next. If the con- 
ventions of romance are only insisted on long enough and 
uniformly enough (a condition guaranteed by the uniformity 
of human folly and vanity), then, for the huge School 
Board-taught masses who read romance and nothing else, 
these conventions will become the laws of personal honor. 
Jealousy, which is either an egotistical meanness or a specific 
mania, will become obligatory ; and ruin, ostracism, break- 
ing up of homes, duelling, murder, suicide and infanticide 
will be produced (often have been produced, in fact) by 
incidents which, if left to the operation of natural and right 
feeling, would produce nothing worse than an hour’s soon- 
forgotten fuss. Men will be slain needlessly on the field of 
battle because officers conceive it to be their first duty to 

make romantic exhibitions of conspicuous gallantry. The 
squire who has never spared an hour from the hunting ° 
field to do a little public work on a parish council will be 
cheered as a patriot because he is willing to kill and get 
killed for the sake of conferring himself as an institution on 


Why for Puritans ? X1X 


other countries. In the courts cases will be argued, not on 
juridical but on romantic principles ; and vindictive damages 
and vindictive sentences, with the acceptance of nonsensical, 
and the repudiation or suppression of sensible testimony, 
will destroy the very sense of law. Kaisers, generals, judges, 
and prime ministers will set the example of playing to the 
gallery. Finally the people, now that their Board School 
literacy enables every penman to play on their romantic 
illusions, will be led by the nose far more completely than 
they ever were by playing on their former ignorance and 
superstition. Nay, why should I say will be? they are. 
Ten years of cheap reading have changed the English 
from the most stolid nation in Europe to the most theatrical 
and hysterical. 

Is it clear now, why the theatre was insufferable to 
me ; why it left its black mark on my bones as it has left 
its black mark on the character of the nation ; why I call 
the Puritans to rescue it again as they rescued it before 
when its foolish pursuit of pleasure sunk it in “ profaneness 
and immorality”? I have, I think, always been a Puritan 
in my attitude towards Art. I am as fond of fine music 
and handsome building as Milton was, or Cromwell, or 
Bunyan ; but if I found that they were becoming the in- 
struments of a systematic idolatry of sensuousness, I would 
hold it good statesmanship to blow every cathedral in the 
world to pieces with dynamite, organ and all, without the 
least heed to the screams of the art critics and cultured 
voluptuaries. And when I see that the nineteenth century 
has crowned the idolatry of Art with the deification of Love, 
so that every poet is supposed to have pierced to the holy 
of holies when he has announced that Love is the Supreme, 
or the Enough, or the All, I feel that Art was safer in the 
hands of the most fanatical of Cromwell’s major generals 
than it will be if ever it gets into mine. The pleasures of 
the senses I can sympathize with and share ; but the sub- 
stitution of sensuous ecstasy for intellectual activity and 
honesty is the very devil. It has already brought us to 


xx Three Plays for Puritans 


Flogging Bills in Parliament, ana, by reaction, to androgynous 
heroes on the stage ; and if the infection spreads until the 
democratic attitude becomes thoroughly Romanticist, the 
country will become unbearable for all realists, Philistine 
or Platonic. When it comes to that, the brute force of the 
strong-minded Bismarckian man of action, impatient of 
humbug, will combine with the subtlety and spiritual energy 
of the man of thought whom shams cannot illude or interest. 
That combination will be on one side ; and Romanticism 
will be on the other. In which event, so much the worse 
for Romanticism, which will come down even if it has to 
drag Democracy down with it. For all institutions have 
in the long run to live by the nature of things, and not by 
imagination, 


ON DIABOLONIAN ETHICS 


There is a foolish opinion prevalent that an author 
should allow his works to speak for themselves, and that 
he who appends and prefixes explanations to them is likely 
to be as bad an artist as the painter cited by Cervantes, who 
wrote under his picture This is a Cock, lest there should 
be any mistake about it. The pat retort to this thoughtless 
comparison is that the painter invariably does so label his 
picture. What is a Royal Academy catalogue but a series 
of statements that This is The Vale of Rest, This is The 
School of Athens, This is Chill October, This is The 
Prince of Wales, and soon? ‘The reason most dramatists 
do not publish their plays with prefaces is that they cannot 
write them, the business of intellectually conscious philoso- 
pher and skilled critic being no part of the playwright’s craft. 
Naturally, making a virtue of their incapacity, they either 
repudiate prefaces as shameful, or else, with a modest air, 
request some popular critic to supply one, as much as to 
say, Were I to tell the truth about myself I must needs 
seem vainglorious: were I to tell less than the truth I 


On Diabolonian Ethics XXI 


should do myself an injustice and deceive my readers. As 
to the critic thus called in from the outside, what can he 
do but imply that his friend’s transcendant ability as a 
dramatist is surpassed only by his beautiful nature as a 
man? Now what I say is, why should I get another man 
to praise me when I can praise myself? Ihave no disabilities 
to plead: produce me your best critic, and J will criticize 
his head off. As to philosophy, I taught my critics the little 
they know in my Quintessence of Ibsenism; and now they 
turn their guns—the guns I loaded for them—on me, and 
proclaim that I write as if mankind had intellect without 
will, or heart, as they call it. Ingrates: who was it that 
directed your attention to the distinction between Will and 
Intellect ? Not Schopenhauer, I think, but Shaw. 

Again, they tell me that So-and-So, who does not write 
prefaces, is no charlatan. Well, Jam. I first caught the 
ear of the British public on a cart in Hyde Park, to the 
blaring of brass bands, and this not at all as a reluctant 
sacrifice of my instinct of privacy to political necessity, but 
because, like all dramatists and mimes of genuine vocation, 
T am a natural-born mountebank. I am well aware that 
the ordinary British citizen requires a profession of shame 
from all mountebanks by way of homage to the sanctity of 
the ignoble private life to which he is condemned by his 
incapacity for public life. ‘Thus Shakespear, after proclaim- 
ing that Not marble nor the gilded monuments of Princes 
should outlive his powerful rhyme, would apologize, in the 
approved taste, for making himself a motley to the view ; 
and the British citizen has ever since quoted the apology and 
ignored the fanfare. When an actress writes her memoirs, 
she impresses on you in every chapter how cruelly it tried 
her feelings to exhibit her person to the public gaze ; but 
she does not forget to decorate the book with a dozen portraits 
of herself. I really cannot respond to this demand for mock- 
modesty. J am ashamed neither of my work nor of the way 
itisdone. I like explaining its merits to the huge majority 
who dont know gocd work from bad. It does them good ; 


XXIl Three Plays for Puritans 


and it does me good, curing me of nervousness, laziness, 
and snobbishness. I write prefaces as Dryden did, and 
treatises as Wagner, because I cam; and I would give half 
a dozen of Shakespear’s plays for one of the prefaces he 
ought to have written. I leave the delicacies of retirement 
to those who are gentlemen first and literary workmen after- 
wards. The cart and trumpet for me. 

This is all very well ; but the trumpet is an instrument 
that grows on one; and sometimes my blasts have been so 
strident that even those who are most annoyed by them 
have mistaken the novelty of my shamelessness for novelty 
in my plays and opinions. Take, for instance, the first play 
in this volume, entitled The Devil’s Disciple. It does not 
contain a single even passably novel incident. Every old 
patron of the Adelphi pit would, were he not beglamored 
in a way presently to be explained, recognize the reading 
of the will, the oppressed orphan finding a protector, the 
arrest, the heroic sacrifice, the court martial, the scaffold, 
the reprieve at the last moment, as he recognizes beefsteak 
pudding on the bill of fare at his restaurant. Yet when the 
play was produced in 1897 in New York by Mr Richard 
Mansfield, with a success that proves either that the melo- 
drama was built on very safe old lines, or that the American 
public is composed exclusively of men of genius, the critics, 
though one said one thing and another another as to the 
play’s merits, yet all agreed that it was novel—original, as 
they put it—to the verge of audacious eccentricity. 

Now this, if it applies to the incidents, plot, construc- 
tion, and general professional and technical qualiiies of the 
play, is nonsense ; for the truth is, I am in these matters a 
very old-fashioned playwright. When a good deal of the 
same talk, both hostile and friendly, was provoked by my 
last volume of plays, Mr Robert Buchanan, a dramatist who 
knows what I know and remembers what I remember of 
the history of the stage, pointed out that the stage tricks 
by which I gave the younger generation of playgoers an 
exquisite sense of quaint unexpectedness, had done duty 


On Diabolonian Ethics XXIil 


years ago in Cool as a Cucumber, Used Up, and many 
forgotten farces and comedies of the Byron- Robertson 
school, in which the imperturbably impudent comedian, 
afterwards shelved by the reaction to brainless sentiment- 
ality, was a stock figure. It is always so more or less: the 
novelties of one generation are only the resuscitated fashions 
of the generation before last. 

But the stage tricks of The Devil’s Disciple are not, 
like some of those of Arms and the Man, the forgotten 
ones of the sixties, but the hackneyed ones of our own 
time. Why, then, were they not recognized? Partly, no 
doubt, because of my trumpet and cartwheel declamation. 
The critics were the victims of the long course of hypnotic 
suggestion by which G.B.S. the journalist manufactured 
an unconventional reputation for Bernard Shaw the author. 
In England as elsewhere the spontaneous recognition of 
really original work begins with a mere handful of people, 
and propagates itself so slowly that it has become a 
commonplace to say that genius, demanding bread, is given 
a stone after its possessor’s death. The remedy for this is 
sedulous advertisement. Accordingly, I have advertized 
myself so well that I find myself, whilst still in middle 
life, almost as legendary a person as the Flying Dutchman. 
Critics, like other people, see what they look for, not 
what is actually before them. In my plays they look for 
my legendary qualities, and find originality and brilliancy 
in my most hackneyed claptraps. Were I to republish 
Buckstone’s Wreck Ashore as my latest comedy, it would 
be hailed as a masterpiece of perverse paradox and scintil- 
lating satire. Not, of course, by the really able critics— 
for example, you, my friend, now reading this sentence. 
The illusion that makes yoz think me so original is far 
subtler than that. The Devil’s Disciple has, in truth, a 
genuine novelty in it. Only, that novelty is not any in- 
vention of my own, but simply the novelty of the advanced 
thought of my day. As such, it will assuredly lose its gloss 
with the lapse of time, and leave The Devil’s Disciple. 


XXIV Three Plays for Puritans 


exposed as the threadbare popular melodrama it technic- 
ally is. 

Let me explain (for, as Mr A. B. Walkley has pointed 
out in his disquisitions on Frames of Mind, I am nothing if 
not explanatory). Dick Dudgeon, the devil’s disciple, is a 
Puritan of the Puritans. He is brought up in a household 
where the Puritan religion has died, and become, in its cor- 
ruption, an excuse for his mother’s master passion of hatred 
in all its phases of cruelty and envy. This corruption 
has already been dramatized for us by Charles Dickens in 
his picture of the Clennam household in Little Dorrit : 
Mrs Dudgeon being a replica of Mrs Clennam with cer- 
tain circumstantial variations, and perhaps a touch of the 
same author’s Mrs Gargery in Great Expectations. In 
such a home the young Puritan finds himself starved of 
religion, which is the most clamorous need of his nature. 
With all his mother’s indomitable selffulness, but with 
Pity instead of Hatred as his master passion, he pities the 
devil; takes his side; and champions him, like a true 
Covenanter, against the world. He thus becomes, like all 
genuinely religious men, a reprobate and an outcast. Once 
this is understood, the play becomes straightforwardly 
simple. 

The Diabolonian position is new to the London play- 
goer of today, but not to lovers of serious literature. From 
Prometheus to the Wagnerian Siegfried, some enemy of the 
gods, unterrified champion of those oppressed by them, has 
always towered among the heroes of the loftiest poetry. 
Our newest idol, the Overman, celebrating the death of 
godhead, may be younger than the hills; but he is as 
old as the shepherds. 'I'wo and a half centuries ago our 
greatest English dramatizer of life, John Bunyan, ended 
one of his stories with the remark that there is a way 
to hell even from the gates of heaven, and so led us 
to the equally true proposition that there is a way to 
heaven even from the gates of hell. A century ago 
William Blake was, like Dick Dudgeon, an avowed 


On Diabolonian Ethics XxV 


Diabolonian : he called his angels devils and his devils 
angels. His devil is a Redeemer. Let those who have 
praised my originality in conceiving Dick Dudgeon’s 
strange religion read Blake’s Marriage of Heavenand Hell; 
and I shall be fortunate if they do not rail at me for a 
plagiarist. But they need not go back to Blake and 
Bunyan. Have they not heard the recent fuss about 
Nietzsche and his Good and Evil Turned Inside Out? 
Mr Robert Buchanan has actually written a long poem 
of which the Devil is the merciful hero, which poem 
was in my hands before a word of The Devil’s Disciple 
was written. ‘There never was a play more certain 
to be written than The Devil’s Disciple at the end of 
the nineteenth century. The age was visibly pregnant 
with it. 

I grieve to have to add that my old friends and col- 
leagues the London critics for the most part shewed no 
sort of connoisseurship either in Puritanism or in Diabolon- 
ianism when the play was performed for a few weeks at a 
suburban theatre (Kennington) in October 1899 by Mr 
Murray Carson. They took Mrs Dudgeon at her own 
valuation as a religious woman because she was detestably 
disagreeable. And they took Dick as a blackguard, on her 
authority, because he was neither detestable nor disagree- 
able. But they presently found themselves in a dilemma. 
Why should a blackguard save another man’s life, and that 
man no friend of his, at the risk of his own? Clearly, said 
the critics, because he is redeemed by love. All wicked 
heroes are, on the stage: that is the romantic metaphysic. 
Unfortunately for this explanation (which I do not profess 
to understand) it turned out in the third act that Dick was 
a Puritan in this respect also: a man impassioned only for 
saving grace, and not to be led or turned by wife or mother, 
Church or State, pride of life or lust of the flesh. In the 
lovely home of the courageous, affectionate, practical 
minister who marries a pretty wife twenty years younger 
than himself, and turns soldier in an instant to save the man 


XXv1 Three Plays for Puritans 


who has saved him, Dick looks round and understands the 
charm and the peace and the sanctity, but knows that such 
material comforts are not for him. When the woman nursed 
in that atmosphere falls in love with him and concludes 
(like the critics, who somehow always agree with my senti- 
mental heroines) that he risked his life for her sake, he tells 
her the obvious truth that he would have done as much for 
any stranger—that the law of his own nature, and no in- 
terest nor lust whatsoever, forbad him to cry out that the 
hangman’s noose should be taken off his neck only to be 
put on another man’s. 

But then, said the critics, where is the motive? Why 
did Dick save Anderson? On the stage, it appears, people 
do things for reasons. Off the stage they dont: that is why 
your penny-in-the-slot heroes, who only work when you 
drop a motive into them, are so oppressively automatic and 
uninteresting. The saving of life at the risk of the saver’s 
own is not acommon thing ; but modern populations are so 
vast that even the most uncommon things are recorded once 
a week or oftener. Not one of my critics but has seen a 
hundred times in his paper how some policeman or fireman 
or nursemaid has received a medal, or the compliments of a 
magistrate, or perhaps a public funeral, for risking his or her 
life to save another’s. Has he ever seen it added that the 
saved was the husband of the woman the saver loved, or was 
that woman herself, or was even known to the saver as much 
as by sight? Never. When we want to read of the deeds 
that are done for love, whither do we turn? To the murder 
column ; and there we are rarely disappointed. 

Need I repeat that the theatre critic’s professional routine 
so discourages any association between real life and the stage, 
that he soon loses the natural habit of referring to the one 
to explain the other? The critic who discovered a romantic 
motive for Dick’s sacrifice was no mere literary dreamer, 
but a clever barrister. He pointed out that Dick Dudgeon 
clearly did adore Mrs Anderson; that it was for her sake 
that he offered his life to save her beloved husband ; and that 


Better than Shakespear ? XXVIII 


his explicit denial of his passion was the splendid mendacity 
of a gentleman whose respect for a married woman, and 
duty to her absent husband, sealed his passion-palpitating 
lips. From the moment that this fatally plausible explan- 
ation was launched, my play became my critic’s play, 
not mine. henceforth Dick Dudgeon every night con- 
firmed the critic by stealing behind Judith, and mutely 
attesting his passion by surreptitiously imprinting a heart- 
broken kiss on a stray lock of her hair whilst he uttered the 
barren denial. As for me, I was just then wandering about 
the streets of Constantinople, unaware of all these doings. 
When I returned all was over. My personal relations with 
the critic and the actor forbad me to curse them. I had not 
even the chance of publicly forgiving them. They meant 
well by me; but if they ever write a play, may I be there 
to explain !* 


BETTER THAN SHAKESPEAR? 


As to the other plays in this volume, the application of 
my title is less obvious, since neither Julius Cesar, Cleo- 
patra nor Lady Cicely Waynflete have any external political 
connexion with Puritanism. The very name of Cleopatra 
suggests at once a tragedy of Circe, with the horrible differ- 
ence that whereas the ancient myth rightly represents Circe 
as turning heroes into hogs, the modern romantic convention 
would represent her as turning hogs into heroes. Shake- 
spears Antony and Cleopatra must needs be as intolerable 
to the true Puritan as it 1s vaguely distressing to the ordinary 


* As I pass these pages through the press (September 1900), the 
critics of Yorkshire are struggling, as against some unholy fascination, 
with the apparition of Dick Dudgeon on their stage in the person of Mr 
Forbes Robertson. “A finished scoundrel” is the description which one 
of them gives of Dick. This is worth recording as an example of the extent 
to which the moral sense remains dormant in people who are content with 
the customary formulas for respectable conduct. 


xxvill Three Plays for Puritans 


healthy citizen, because, after giving a faithful picture of 
the soldier broken down by debauchery, and the typical 
wanton in whose arms such men perish, Shakespear finally 
strains all his huge command of rhetoric and stage pathos 
to give a theatrical sublimity to the wretched end of the 
business, and to persuade foolish spectators that the world 
was well lost by the twain. Such falsehood is not to be 
borne except by the real Cleopatras and Antonys (they are 
to be found in every public house) who would no doubt be 
glad enough to be transfigured by some poet as immortal 
lovers. Woe to the poet who stoops to such folly! The lot 
of the man who sees life truly and thinks about it romantic- 
ally is Despair. How well we know the cries of that despair! 
Vanity of vanities, all is vanity ! moans the Preacher, when 
life has at last taught him that Nature will not dance to his 
moralist-made tunes. Thackeray, scores of centuries later, 
is still baying the moon in the same terms. Out, out, brief 
candle! cries Shakespear, in his tragedy of the modern 
literary man as murderer and witch consulter. Surely the 
time is past for patience with writers who, having to choose 
between giving up life in despair and discarding the trumpery 
moral kitchen scales in which they try to weigh the uni- 
verse, superstitiously stick to the scales, and spend the rest 
of the lives they pretend to despise in breaking men’s spirits. 
But even in pessimism there is a choice between intellectual 
honesty and dishonesty. Hogarth drew the rake and the 
harlot without glorifying their end. Swift, accepting our 
system of morals and religion, delivered the inevitable verdict 
of that system on us through the mouth of the king of 
Brobdingnag, and described man as the Yahoo, shocking his 
superior the horse by his every action. Strindberg, the only 
living genuine Shakespearean dramatist, shews that the 
female Yahoo, measured by romantic standards, is viler than 
her male dupe and slave. I respect these resolute tragi- 
comedians: they are logical and faithful: they force you to 
face the fact that you must either accept their conclusions 
as valid (in which case it is cowardly to continue living) or 


Better than Shakespear ? XX1X 


admit that your way of judging conduct is absurd. But when 
your Shakespears and Thackerays huddle up the matter at 
the end by killing somebody and covering your eyes with 
the undertaker’s handkerchief, duly onioned with some 
pathetic phrase, as The flight of angels sing thee to thy 
rest, or Adsum, or the like, I have no respect for them at 
all: such maudlin tricks may impose on tea-drunkards, not 
on me. 

Besides, I have a technical objection to making sexual 
infatuation a tragic theme. Experience proves that it is only 
effective in the comic spirit. We can bear to see Mrs 
Quickly pawning her plate for love of Falstaff, but not 
Antony running away from the battle of Actium for love of 
Cleopatra. Let realism have its demonstration, comedy its 
criticism, or even bawdry its horselaugh at the expense of 
sexual infatuation, 1f it must; but to ask us to subject our 
souls to its ruinous glamor, to worship it, deify it, and imply 
that it alone makes our life worth living, is nothing but 
folly gone mad erotically—a thing compared to which Fal- 
staff’s unbeglamored drinking and drabbing is respectable 
and rightminded. Whoever, then, expects to find Cleopatra 
a Circe and Cesar a hog in these pages, had better lay down 
my book and be spared a disappointment. 

In Cesar, I have used another character with which 
Shakespear has been beforehand. But Shakespear, who 
knew human weakness so well, never knew human strength 
of the Cesarian type. His Cesar is an admitted failure : 
his Lear is a masterpiece. The tragedy of disillusion and 
doubt, of the agonized struggle for a foothold on the quick- 
sand made by an acute observation striving to verify its vain 
attribution of morality and respectability to Nature, of the 
faithless will and the keen eyes that the faithless will is 
too weak to blind: all this will give you a Hamlet ora 
Macbeth, and win you great applause from literary gentle- 
men ; but it will not give you a Julius Caesar. Caesar was 
not in Shakespear, nor in the epoch, now fast waning, 
which he inaugurated. It cost Shakespear no pang to write 


XXX Three Plays for Puritans 


Cesar down for the merely technical purpose of writing 
Brutus up. And what a Brutus! A perfect Girondin, 
mirrored in Shakespear’s art two hundred years before the 
real thing came to maturity and talked and stalked and had 
its head duly cut off by the coarser Antonys and Octaviuses 
of its time, who at least knew the difference between life 
and rhetoric. 

It will be said that these remarks can bear no other con- 
struction than an offer of my Cesar to the public as an 
improvement on Shakespear’s. And in fact, that is their 
precise purport. But here let me give a friendly warning 
to those scribes who have so often exclaimed against my 
criticisms of Shakespear as blasphemies against a hitherto 
unquestioned Perfection and Infallibility. Such criticisms 
are no more new than the creed of my Diabolonian Puritan 
or my revival of the humors of Cool as a Cucumber. Too 
much surprise at them betrays an acquaintance with Shake- 
spear Criticism so limited as not to include even the prefaces 
of Dr Johnson and the utterances of Napoleon. IJ have 
merely repeated in the dialect of my own time and in the 
light of its philosophy what they said in the dialect and 
light of theirs. Do not be misled by the Shakespear fanciers 
who, ever since his own time, have delighted in his plays 
just as they might have delighted in a particular breed of 
pigeons if they had never learnt to read. His genuine 
critics, from Ben Jonson to Mr Frank Harris, have always 
kept as far on this side idolatry as I. 

As to our ordinary uncritical citizens, they have been 
slowly trudging forward these three centuries to the point 
which Shakespear reached at a bound in Elizabeth’s time. 
Today most of them have arrived there or thereabouts, with 
the result that his plays are at last beginning to be performed 
as he wrote them ; and the long line of disgraceful farces, 
melodramas, and stage pageants which actor-managers, 
from Garrick and Cibber to our own contemporaries, have 
hacked out of his plays as peasants have hacked huts out of 
the Coliseum, are beginning to vanish from the stage. It 


Better than Shakespear ? XXX1 


is a significant fact that the mutilators of Shakespear, who 
never could be persuaded that Shakespear knew his business 
better than they, have ever been the most fanatical of his 
worshippers. The late Augustin Daly thought no price too 
extravagant for an addition to his collection of Shakespear 
relics ; but in arranging Shakespear’s plays for the stage, 
he proceeded on the assumption that Shakespear wus a 
botcher and he an artist. I am far too good a Shake- 
spearean ever to forgive Sir Henry Irving for producing a 
version of King Lear so mutilated that the numerous 
critics who had never read the play could not follow the 
story of Gloster. Both these idolaters of the Bard must 
have thought Mr Forbes Robertson mad _ because he 
restored Fortinbras to the stage and played as much 
of Hamlet as there was time for instead of as little. And 
the instant success of the experiment probably altered their 
minds no further than to make them think the public mad. 
Mr Benson actually gives the play complete at two sit- 
tings, causing the aforesaid numerous critics to remark with 
naive surprise that Polonius is a complete and interesting 
character. It was the age of gross ignorance of Shakespear 
and incapacity for his works that produced the indiscriminate 
eulogies with which we are familiar. It was the revival 
of genuine criticism of those works that coincided with the 
movement for giving genuine instead of spurious and silly 
representations of his plays. So much for Bardolatry ! 

It does not follow, however, that the right to criticize 
Shakespear involves the power of writing better plays. And 
in fact—do not be surprised at my modesty—I do not pro- 
fess to write better plays. ‘The writing of practicable stage 
plays does not present an infinite scope to human talent ; 
and the dramatists who magnify its dificulties are humbugs. 
The summit of their art has been attained again and again. 
No man will ever write a better tragedy than Lear, a better 
comedy than Le Festin de Pierre or Peer Gynt, a better 
opera than Don Giovanni, a better music drama than The 
Niblung’s Ring, or, for the matter of that, better fashion- 


xxxil Three Plays for Puritans 


able plays and melodramas than are now being turned out 
by writers whom nobody dreams of mocking with the word 
immortal. It is the philosophy, the outlook on life, that 
changes, not the craft of the playwright. A generation that 
is thoroughly moralized and patriotized, that conceives virtu- 
ous indignation as spiritually nutritious, that murders the 
murderer and robs the thief, that grovels before all sorts of 
ideals, social, military, ecclesiastical, royal and divine, may 
be, from my point of view, steeped in error ; but it need 
not want for as good plays as the hand of man can produce. 
Only, those plays will be neither written nor relished by 
men in whose philosophy guilt and innocence, and con- 
sequently revenge and idolatry, have no meaning. Such 
men must rewrite all the old plays in terms of their own 
philosophy ; and that is why, as Mr Stuart-Glennie has 
pointed out, there can be no new drama without a new 
philosophy. ‘To which I may add that there can be no 
Shakespear or Goethe without one either, nor two Shake- 
spears in one philosophic epoch, since, as I have said, the 
first great comer in that epoch reaps the whole harvest and 
reduces those who come after to the rank of mere gleaners, 
or, worse than that, fools who go laboriously through all 
the motions of the reaper and binder in an empty field. 
What is the use of writing plays or painting frescoes if you 
have nothing more to say or shew than was said and shewn 
by Shakespear, Michael Angelo, and Raphael? Ifthese had 
not seen things differently, for better or worse, from the 
dramatic poets of the Townley mysteries, or from Giotto, 
they could not have produced their works: no, not though 
their skill of pen and hand had been double what it was. 
After them there was no need (and zeed alone nerves men 
to face the persecution in the teeth of which new art is 
brought to birth) to redo the already done, until in due 
time, when their philosophy wore itself out, a new race 
of nineteenth century poets and critics, from Byron to 
William Morris, began, first to speak coldly of Shakespear 
and Raphael, and then to rediscover, in the medieval art 


Better than Shakespear? xxxuil 


which these Renascence masters had superseded, certain 
forgotten elements which were germinating again for the 
new harvest. What is more, they began to discover that 
the technical skill of the masters was by no means super- 
lative. Indeed, I defy anyone to prove that the great epoch 
makers in fine art have owed their position to their techni- 
cal skill. It is true that when we search for examples of a 
prodigious command of language and of graphic line, we 
can think of nobody better than Shakespear and Michael 
Angelo. But both of them laid their arts waste for centuries 
by leading later artists to seek greatness in copying their 
technique. The technique was acquired, refined on, and 
surpassed over and over again; but the supremacy of the 
two great exemplars remained undisputed. As a matter of 
easily observable fact, every generation produces men of 
extraordinary special faculty, artistic, mathematical and 
linguistic, who for lack of new ideas, or indeed of any 
ideas worth mentioning, achieve no distinction outside 
music halls and class rooms, although they can do things 
easily that the great epoch makers did clumsily or not 
at all. The contempt of the academic pedant for the 
original artist is often founded on a genuine superiority of 
technical knowledge and aptitude : he is sometimes a better 
anatomical draughtsman than Raphael, a better hand at 
triple counterpoint than Beethoven, a better versifier than 
Byron. Nay, this is true not merely of pedants, but of men 
who have produced works of art of some note. If technical 
facility were the secret of greatness in art, Mr Swinburne 
would be greater than Browning and Byron rolled into one, 
Stevenson greater than Scott or Dickens, Mendelssohn 
than Wagner, Maclise than Madox Brown. Besides, new 
ideas make their technique as water makes its channel ; and 
the technician without ideas is as useless as the canal con- 
structor without water, though he may do very skilfully 
what the Mississippi does very rudely. To clinch the argu- 
ment, you have only to observe that the epoch maker himself 
has generally begun working professionally before his new 
¢ 


xxxiv. Three Plays for Puritans 


ideas have mastered him sufficiently to insist on constant 
expression by his art. In such cases you are compelled to 
admit that if he had by chance died earlier, his greatness 
would have remained unachieved, although his technical 
qualifications would have been well enough established. 
The early imitative works of great men are usually con- 
spicuously inferior to the best works of their forerunners. 
Imagine Wagner dying after composing Rienzi, or Shelley 
after Zastrozzi! Would any competent critic then have 
rated Wagner’s technical aptitude as high as Rossini’s, 
Spontini’s, or Meyerbeer’s; or Shelley’s as high as Moore’s? 
Turn the problem another way: does anyone suppose that 
if Shakespear had conceived Goethe’s or Ibsen’s ideas, he 
would have expressed them any worse than Goethe or 
Ibsen? Human faculty being what it is, is it likely that in 
our time any advance, except in external conditions, will 
take place in the arts of expression sufficient to enable an 
author, without making himself ridiculous, to undertake to 
say what he has to say better than Homer or Shakespear? 
But the humblest author, and much more a rather arrogant 
one like myself, may profess to have something to say by 
this time that neither Homer nor Shakespear said. And 
the playgoer may reasonably ask to have historical events 
and persons presented to him in the light of his own time, 
even though Homer and Shakespear have already shewn 
them in the light of their time. For example, Homer 
presented Achilles and Ajax as heroes to the world in the 
Iliads. In due time came Shakespear, who said, virtually : 
I really cannot accept this selfish hound and this brawny 
brute as great men merely because Homer flattered them 
in playing to the Greek gallery. Consequently we have, 
in Troilus and Cressida, the verdict of Shakespear’s epoch 
(our own) on the pair. ‘This did not in the least involve 
any pretence on Shakespear’s part to be a greater poet than 
Homer. 

When Shakespear in turn came to deal with Henry V 
and Julius Cesar, he did so according to his own essentially 


Better than Shakespear ? XXXV 


knightly conception of a great statesman-commander. But 
in the XIX century comes the German historian Mommsen, 
who also takes Cesar for his hero, and explains the im- 
mense difference in scope between the perfect knight 
Vercingetorix and his great conqueror Julius Cesar. in 
this country, Carlyle, with his vein of peasant inspiration, 
apprehended the sort of greatness that places the true hero 
of history so far beyond the mere preux chevalier, whose 
fanatical personal honor, gallantry and self-sacrifice, are 
founded on a passion for death born of inability to bear the 
weight of a life that will not grant ideal conditions to the 
liver. This one ray of perception became Carlyle’s whole 
stock-in-trade ; and it sufficed to make a literary master of 
him. In due time, when Mommsen is an old man, and 
Carlyle dead, come I,and dramatize the by-this-time familiar 
distinction in Arms and the Man, with its comedic conflict 
between the knightly Bulgarian and the Mommsenite Swiss 
captain. Whereupon a great many playgoers who have not 
yet read Shakespear, much less Mommsen and Carlyle, raise 
a shriek of concern for their knightly ideal as if nobody had 
ever questioned its sufficiency since the middle ages. Let 
them thank me for educating them so far. And let them 
allow me to set forth Czsarin the same modern light, taking 
the same liberty with Shakespear as he with Homer, and 
with no thought of pretending to express the Mommsenite 
view of Cesar any better than Shakespear expressed a view 
which was not even Plutarchian, and must, I fear, be re- 
ferred to the tradition in stage conquerors established by 
Marlowe’s ‘Tamerlane as much as to even the chivalrous 
conception of heroism dramatized in Henry V. 

For my own part, I can avouch that such powers of 
invention, humor and stage ingenuity as I have been able 
to exercise in Plays, Pleasant and Unpleasant, and in 
these Three Plays for Puritans, availed me not at all until 
I saw the old facts in a new light. ‘Technically, I do not 
find myself able to proceed otherwise than as former play- 
wrights havedone. ‘True, my plays have the latest mechanical 


xxxvl Three Plays for Puritans 


improvements: the action is not carried on by impossible 
soliloquys and asides; and my people get on and off the 
stage without requiring four doors to a room which in real 
life would have only one. But my stories are the old stories ; 
my characters are the familiar harlequin and columbine, 
clown and pantaloon (note the harlequin’s leap in the third 
act of Cesar and Cleopatra); my stage tricks and suspenses 
and thrills and jests are the ones in vogue when I was a 
boy, by which time my grandfather was tired of them. To 
the young people who make their acquaintance for the first 
time in my plays, they may be as novel as Cyrano’s nose to 
those who have never seen Punch; whilst to older play- 
goers the unexpectedness of my attempt to substitute natural 
history for conventional ethics and romantic logic may so 
transfigure the eternal stage puppets and their inevitable 
dilemmas as to make their identification impossible for the 
moment. Ifso,so much the better for me: I shall perhaps 
enjoy a few years of immortality. But the whirligig of 
time will soon bring my audiences to my own point of view ; 
and then the next Shakespear that comes along will turn 
these petty tentatives of mine into masterpieces final for 
their epoch. By that time my twentieth century charac- 
teristics will pass unnoticed as a matter of course, whilst 
the eighteenth century artificiality that marks the work of 
every literary Irishman of my generation will seemantiquated 
and silly. It is a dangerous thing to be hailed at once, as 
a few rash admirers have hailed me, as above all things 
original: what the world calls originality is only an un- 
accustomed method of tickling it. Meyerbeer seemed 
prodigiously original to the Parisians when he first burst on 
them. Today, he is only the crow who followed Beethoven’s 
plough. lama crow who have followed many ploughs. No 
doubt I seem prodigiously clever to those who have never 
hopped, hungry and curious, across the fields of philosophy, 
politics and art. Karl Marx said of Stuart Mill that his 
eminence was due to the flatness of the surrounding country. 
In these days of Board Schools, universal reading, cheap 


Better than Shakespear? xxxvii 


newspapers, and the inevitable ensuing demand for nota- 
bilities of all sorts, literary, military, political and fashion- 
able, to write paragraphs about, that sort of eminence is 
within the reach of very moderate ability. Reputations are 
cheap nowadays. Even were they dear, it would still be 
impossible for any public-spirited citizen of the world to 
hope that his reputation might endure; for this would be 
to hope that the flood of general enlightenment may never 
rise above his miserable high-watermark. I hate to think 
that Shakespear has lasted 300 years, though he got no 
further than Koheleth the Preacher, who died many 
centuries before him; or that Plato, more than 2000 years 
old, is still ahead of our voters. We must hurry on: we 
must get rid of reputations: they are weeds in the soil 
of ignorance. Cultivate that soil, and they will flower 
more beautifully, but only as annuals. If this preface will 
at all help to get rid of mine, the writing of it will have 
been well worth the pains. 


SuRREY, 1900. 


Pretace 
Why tor Puritans 
On Diabolonian Ethics 
Better than Shakespear f 


The Devil’s Disciple : A Melodrama 
Notes to The Devil’s poesia 
General Burgoyne 
Brudenell 


Cesar and Cleopatra: A History . 
Notes to Cesar and Cleopatra : 
Cleopatra’s Cure for Baldness 
Apparent Anachronisms 
Cleopatra 
Britannus 
Julius Cesar . 


XX 
XXVI1 


82 
88 


201 
202 
206 
207 
208 


Captain Brassbound’s Conversion: An Adventure . 


Notes to Captain Brassbound : 
Sources of the Play . 
English and American Dialects 


301 
304 


[These plays have been publicly performed within the United 
They are entered at Stationers’ Hall, and at the 
Library of Congress, Washington, U.S.A. All rights re- 


Kingdom. 


served |. 


89 


213 


THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE 
Vill 


London 1897. 





C ker oOb-vckeril. fil v. 


= 
Se ttf. 2G, ner at Burgoyn C 


Dy pe 2 fe Mis. Burge re fron the picture 
in her pepifite eae Hamp fear Go rere f Tice ye 


THE DEVIL’S DISCIPLE 


ACE I 


At the most wretched hour between a black night and a wintry 
morning in the year 1777, Mrs Dudgeon, of New Hampshire, 
is sitting up in the kitchen and general dwelling room of her farm 
house on the outskirts of the town of Websterbridge. She ts not 
a prepossessing woman. No woman looks her best after sitting 
up all night; and Mrs Dudgeon’s face, even at its best, ts 
grimly trenched by the channels into which the barren forms 
and observances of a dead Puritanism can pen a bitter temper 
anda fierce pride. She is an elderly matron who has worked hard 
and got nothing by it except dominion and detestation in her sor- 
did home, and an unquestioned reputation for piety and respect- 
ability among her neighbors, to whom drink and debauchery are 
still so much more tempting than religion and rectitude, that they 
conceive goodness simply as self-denial. This conception is easily 
extended to others-denial, and finally generalized as covering 
anything disagreeable. So Mrs Dudgeon, being exceedingly dis- 
agreeable, is held to be exceedingly good. Short of flat felony, 
she enjoys complete license except for amiable weaknesses of any 
sort, and is consequently, without knowing it, the most licentious 
woman in the parish on the strength of never having broken the 
seventh commandment or missed a Sunday at the Presbyterian 
church. 

The year 1777 is the one in which the passions roused by the 


4 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


breaking-off of the American colonies from England, more by 
their own weight than their otun will, boiled up to shooting 
point, the shooting being idealized to the English mind as sup- 
pression of rebellion and maintenance of British dominion, and to 
the American as defence of liberty, resistance to tyranny, and 
self-sacrifice on the altar of the Rights of Man. Into the merits 
of these idealizations it is not here necessary to inquire: suffice 
it to say, without prejudice, that they have convinced both Ameri- 
cans and English that the most highminded course for them to 
pursue is to kill as many of one another as possible, and that mili- 
tary operations to that end are in full swing, morally supported 
by confident requests from the clergy of both sides for the blessing 
of God on their arms. 

Under such circumstances many other women besides this dis- 
agreeable Mrs Dudgeon find themselves sitting up all night wait- 
ing for news. Like her, too, they fall asleep towards morning at the 
risk of nodding themselves into the kitchen fire. Mrs Dudgeon 
sleeps with a shawl over her head, and her feet on a broad fender 
of iron laths, the step of the domestic altar of the fireplace, with 
its huge hobs and boiler, and its hinged arm above the smoky 
mantel-shelf for roasting. The plain kitchen table is opposite the 
fire, at her elbow, with a candle on it in a tin sconce. Her chair, 
like all the others in the room, is uncushioned and unpainted; but 
as it has a round railed back and a seat conventionally moulded 
to the sitter’s curves, it is comparatively a chair of state. The room 
has three doors, one on the same side as the fircplace, near the 
corner, leading to the best bedroom; one, at the opposite end of 
the opposite wall, leading to the scullery ana washhouse; and the 
housedoor, with its latch, heavy lock, and clumsy wooden bar, in the 
front wall, between the window in its middle and the corner next 
the bedroom docr. Between the door and the window a rack oj 
pegs suggests to the deductive sbserver that the men of the house 
are all away, as there are no hats or coats on them. On the other 
side of the window the clock hangs on a nail, with its white 
ewooden dial, black iron weights, and brass pendulum. Between 
the clock and the corner, a big cupboard, locked, stands on a dwarf 
dresser full of common crockery. 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 5 


Ox the side opposite the fircplace, between the door and the 
corner, a shamelessly ugly black horsehair sofa stands against the 
wall, An inspection of its stridulous surface shews that Mrs 
Dudgeon is not alone. A girl of sixteen or seventeen has fallen 
asleep on it. She is a wild, timid looking creature with black hair 
and tanned skin. Her frock, a scanty garment, is rent, weather- 
stained, berrystained, and by no means scrupulously clean. It 
hangs on her with a freedom which, taken with her brown legs 
and bare feet, suggests no great stock of underclothing. 

Suddenly there comes a tapping at the door, not loud enough 
to wake the sleepers. Then knocking, which disturbs Mrs Dua- 
geon a little. Finally the latch is tried, whereupon she springs up 
at once. 


MRS DUDGEON [fhreateningly| Well, why dont you open 
the door? [S4e sees that the girl is asleep, and immediately 
raises a clamor of heartfelt vexation|. Well, dear, dear me! 
Now this is——[shaking her] wake up, wake up: do you hear? 

_ THE GIRL [sitting up| What is it? 

mMRs DuDGEON. Wake up; and be ashamed of yourself, 
you unfeeling sinful girl, falling asleep like that, and your 
father hardly cold in his grave. 

THE GIRL [Aa/f asleep stil/| 1 didnt mean to. I dropped 
off — 

MRS DUDGEON [cutting her short] Oh yes, youve plenty of 
excuses, I daresay. Dropped off! [Fiercely, as the knocking 
recommences| Why dont you get up and let your uncle in? 
after me waiting up all night for him! [S/e pushes her rudely 
off the sofa]. ‘There: Pll open the door: much good you are 
to wait up. Go and mend that fire a bit. 

The girl, cowed and wretched, goes to the fire and puts a log 
on. Mrs Dudgeon unbars the door and opens it, letting into the 
stuffy kitchen a little of the freshness and a great deal of the chill 
of the dawn, also her second son Christy, a fattish, stupid, fair- 
haired, roundfaced man of about 22, muffied in a plaid shawl 
and grey overcoat. He hurries, shivering, to the fire, leaving 
Mrs Dudgeon to shut the door. 


6 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


cHRISTY [at the fre] F—f—f! butitis cold. [Seeing the 
girl, and staring lumpishly at her| Why, who are you? 

THE GIRL [s/y/y] Essie. 

MRS DUDGEON. Oh, you may well ask. [Zo Essie] Go to 
your room, child, and lie down, since you havnt feeling 
enough to keep you awake. Your history isnt fit for your 
own ears to hear. 

ESSIE. | — 

MRS DUDGEON [ peremptori/y| Dont answer me, Miss; but 
shew your obedience by doing what I tell you. [ Fssie, al- 
most in tears, crosses the room to the door near the sofa|. And 
dont forget your prayers. [Essie goes out]. She’d have gone 
to bed last night just as if nothing had happened if Id let 
er. 

curisty [ pAlegmatically| Well, she cant be expected to 
feel Uncle Peter’s death like one of the family. 

MRS DUDGEON. What are you talking about, child? Isnt 
she his daughter —the punishment of his wickedness and 
shame? [S4e assaults her chair by sitting down). 

cHristy [staring] Uncle Peter’s daughter! 

mrs DuDGEON. Why else should she be here? D’ye think 
Ive not had enough trouble and care put upon me bringing 
up my own girls, let alone you and your good-for-nothing 
brother, without having your uncle’s bastards — 

CHRISTY [interrupting ler with an apprehensive glance at the 
door by which Essie went out] Sh! She may hear you. 

MRS DUDGEON [raising fer voice] Let her hear me. People 
who fear God dont fear to give the devil’s work its right 
name. [Ch4risty, soullessly indifferent to the strife of Good and 
Evil, stares at the fire, warming himself|. Well, how long are 
you going to stare there like a stuck pig? What news have 
you for me? 

cHristy [taking off his hat and shawl and going to the rack 
to hang them up| The minister is to break the news to you. 
He'll be here presently. 

MRS DUDGEON. Break what news? 

cHristy [standing on tiptoe, from boyish habit, to hang his 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 7 


hat up, though he is quite tall enough to reach the peg, and speak- 
ing with callous placidity, considering the nature of the announce- 
ment|\ Father’s dead too. 

Mrs puDGEON [stupent] Your father! 

cHristy [sulkily, coming back to the fire and warming him- 
self again, attending much more to the fire than to his mether| 
Well, it’s not my fault. When we got to Nevinstown 
we found him ill in bed. He didnt know us at first. The 
minister sat up with him and sent me away. He died in 
the night. 

MRs DUDGEON [dursting into dry angry tears] Well, I do 
think this is hard on me —very hard on me. His brother, 
that was a disgrace to us all his life, gets hanged on the 
public gallows as a rebel; and your father, instead of stay- 
ing at home where his duty was, with his own family, goes 
after him and dies, leaving everything on my shoulders. 
After sending this girl to me to take care of, too! [S+e 
plucks ber shawl vexedly over fer ears]. It’s sinful, so it is: 
downright sinful. 

cHristy [with a slow, bovine cheerfulness, after a pause} I 
think it’s going to be a fine morning, after all. 

mrs DupDGEON [railing at fim] A fine morning! And your 
' father newly dead! Wheres your feelings, child? 

curisty [obstinately]| Well, I didnt mean any harm. | 
suppose a man may make a remark about the weather even 
if his father’s dead. 

mRs pupGEON [Jitter/y] A nice comfort my children are 
to me! One son a fool, and the other a lost sinner thats left 
his home to live with smugglers and gypsies and villains, 
the scum of the earth! 

Someone knocks. 

cHristy [without moving] 'That’s the minister. 

mrs DuDGEON [sharply] Well, arnt you going to let Mr 
Anderson in? 

Christy goes skeepishly to the door. Mrs Dudgeon buries her 
face in her hands, as it is her duty as a widow to be overcome 
with grief. Christy opens the door, and admits the minister, 


8 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


Anthony Anderson, a shrewd, genial, ready Presbyterian divine 
of about 50, with something of the authority of his profession in 
his bearing. But it is an altogether secular authority, sweetened 
by a conciliatory, sensible manner not at all suggestive of a 
quite thoroughgoing other-worldliness. He is a strong, healthy 
man too, with a thick sanguine neck; and his keen, cheerful mouth 
cuts into somewhat fleshy corners. No doubt an excellent parson, 
but still a man capable of making the most of this world, and 
perhaps a little apologetically conscious of getting on better with 
it than a sound Presbyterian ought. 

ANDERSON [to Christy, at the door, looking at Mrs Dudgeon 
whilst he takes off his cloak} Have you told her? 

cHRisty. She made me. [He shuts the door; yawns; and 
loafs across to the sofa, where he sits down and presently drops off 
to sleep). 

Anderson looks compassionately at Mrs Dudgeon. Then he 
hangs his cloak and hat on the rack. Mrs Dudgeon dries her eyes 
and looks up at him. 

ANDERSON. Sister: the Lord has laid his hand very heavily 
upon you. 

MRS DUDGEON [with intensely recalcitrant resignation] It’s 
His will, I suppose; and J must bow toit. But I do think 
it hard. What call had Timothy to go to Springtown, and 
remind everybody that he belonged to a man that was being 
hanged ?—and [spitefully] that deserved it, if ever a man did. 

ANDERSON [gezt/y] They were brothers, Mrs Dudgeon. 

MRS DUDGEON. Timothy never acknowledged him as his 
brother after we were married: he had too much respect 
for me to insult me with such a brother. Would such a sel- 
fish wretch as Peter have come thirty miles to see Timothy 
hanged, do you think? Not thirty yards, not he. How- 
ever, I must bear my cross as best I may: least said is 
soonest mended. 

ANDERSON [very grave, coming down tothe fire to stand with 
his back to it) Your eldest son was present at the execution, 
Mrs Dudgeon. 

MRS DUDGEON [disagreeably surprised] Richard? 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 9 


ANDERSON [zodding| Yes. 

MRS DUDGEON [vizdictively] Let it be a warning to him, 
He may end that way himself, the wicked, dissolute, god- 
less —[she suddenly stops ; her voice fails; and she asks, with 
evident dread| Did ‘Timothy see him? 

ANDERSON. Yes. 

MRS DUDGEON [Aolding her breath| Well? 

ANDERSON. He only saw him in the crowd: they did not 
speak. [Mrs Dudgeon, greatly relieved, exhales the pent up 
breath and sits at fer ease again|. Your husband was greatly 
touched and impressed by his brother’s awful death. [Mrs 
Dudgeon sneers. Anderson breaks off to demand with some 
indignation| Well, wasnt it only natural, Mrs Dudgeon? 
He softened towards his prodigal son in that moment. He 
sent for him to come to see him. 

MRS DUDGEON [/er alarm renewed| Sent for Richard! 

ANDERSON. Yes; but Richard would not come. He sent 
his father a message; but I’m sorry to say it was a wicked 
message —-an awful message. 

MRS DUDGEON. What was it? 

ANDERSON. ‘hat he would stand by his wicked uncle, 
and stand against his good parents, in this world and the 
next: 

Mrs DuDGEON [implacably| He will be punished for it. 
He will be punished for it —in both worlds. 

ANDERSON. ‘That is not in our hands, Mrs Dudgeon. 

MRs DuDGEON. Did I say it was, Mr Anderson? We 
are told that the wicked shall be punished. Why should 
we do our duty and keep God’s law if there is to be no differ- 
ence made between us and those who follow their own 
likings and dislikings, and make a jest of us and of their 
Maker’s word ? 

ANDERSON. Well, Richard’s earthly father has been merci- 
ful to him; and his heavenly judge is the father of us all. 

MRS DUDGEON [ forgetting herself] Richard’s earthly father 
was a softheaded — 

ANDERSON [shocked] Oh! 


1O Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


MRS DUDGEON [with a touch of shame| Well, lam Richard’s 
mother. If I am against him who has any right to be for 
him? [Trying to conciliate him] Wont you sit down, Mr 
Anderson? I should have asked you before; but I’m so 
troubled. 

ANDERSON. Thank you. [He takes a chair from beside the 
fireplace, and turns it so that he can sit comfortably at the fire. 
When he is seated he adds, in the tone of a man who knows that 
he is opening a dificult subject| Has Christy told you about 
the new will? 

Mrs DuDGEON [all fer fears returning] The new will! 
Did Timothy —? [S#e breaks off, gasping, unable to complete 
the question). 

ANDERSON. Yes. In his last hours he changed his mind. 

MRS DUDGEON [white with intense rage| And you let him 
rob me? 

ANDERSON. I had no power to prevent him giving what 
was his to his own son. 

MRS DUDGEON. He had nothing of his own. His money 
was the money I brought him as my marriage portion. It 
was for me to deal with my own money and my own son. 
He dare not have done it if I had been with him ; and well 
he knew it. ‘That was why he stole away like a thief to 
take advantage of the law to rob me by making a new will 
behind my back. ‘The more shame on you, Mr Anderson, 
— you, a minister of the gospel — to act as his accomplice 
in such a crime. 

ANDERSON [rising] I will take no offence at what you 
say in the first bitterness of your grief. 

MRS DUDGEON [contemptuously| Grief ! 

ANDERSON. Well, of your disappointment, if you can 
find it in your heart to think that the better word. 

Mrs DUDGEON. My heart! My heart! And since when, 
pray, have you begun to hold ‘Up our hearts as trustworthy 
guides for us? 

ANDERSON [rather guiltily| I— er — 

MRS DUDGEON [vehemently] Dont lie, Mr Anderson. We 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple ha 


are told that the heart of man is deceitful above all things, 
and desperately wicked. My heart belonged, not to 
Timothy, but to that poor wretched brother of his that has 
just ended his days with a rope round his neck—aye, to 
Peter Dudgeon. You know it: old Eli Hawkins, the man 
to whose pulpit you succeeded, though you are not worthy 
to loose his shoe latchet, told it you when he gave over our 
souls into your charge. He warned me and strengthened 
me against my heart, and made me marry a Godfearing 
man—as he thought. What else but that discipline has 
made me the woman Iam? And you, you, who followed 
your heart in your marriage, you talk to me of what I find 
in my heart. Go home to your pretty wife, man; and 
leave me to my prayers. [S4e turns from him and leans with 
her elbows on the table, brooding over her wrongs and taking 
no further notice of him]. 

ANDERSON [willing enough to escape) 'The Lord forbid that 
I should come between you and the source of all comfort! 
[He goes to the rack for his coat and hat). 

MRS DUDGEON [without looking at him| The Lord will 
know what to forbid and what to allow without your help. 

anperson. And whom to forgive, I hope—Elhi Hawkins 
and myself, if we have ever set up our preaching against His 
law. [He fastens his cloak, and is now ready to go]. Just 
one word — on necessary business, Mrs Dudgeon. There 1s 
the reading of the will to be gone through; and Richard 
has a right to be present. He is in the town; but he has 
the grace to say that he does not want to force himself in 
here. 

MRS DUDGEON. He shall come here. Does he expect 
us to leave his father’s house for his convenience? Let 
them all come, and come quickly, and go quickly. They 
shall not make the will an excuse to shirk half their day’s 
work. I shall be ready, never fear. 

ANDERSON [coming back a step or tevo] Mrs Dudgeon: I 
used to have some little influence with you. When did I 
lose it? 


12 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


MRS DUDGEON [sti// without turning to him] When you 
married for love. Now youre answered. 

ANDERSON. Yes: J am answered. [He goes out, musing}. 

MRS DUDGEON [fo herself, thinking of her husband) Thief! 
Thief !! [S#e shakes terself angrily out of her chairs; throws 
back the shawl from her head; and sets to work to prepare the 
room for tke reading of the will, beginning by replacing 
Anderson's chair against the wall, and pushing back her own to 
the window. Then she calls, in her hard, driving, wrathful 
way| Christy. [No answer: he is fast asleep]. Christy. 
[Se shakes him roughly]. Get up out of that; and be 
ashamed of yourself—sleeping, and your father dead! [S4e 
returns to the table; puts the candle on the mantelshelf; and 
takes from the table drawer a red table cloth which she spreads}. 

cHRIsTY [rising reluctantly| Well, do you suppose we 
are never going to sleep until we are out of mourning? 

MRS DUDGEON. I want none of your sulks. Here: help 
me to set this table. [They place the table in the middle of 
the room, with Christy’s end towards the fireplace and Mrs 
Dudgeon’s towards the sofa. Christy drops the table as soon as 
possible, and goes to the fire, leaving his mother to make the 
final adjustments of its position]. We shall have the minister 
back here with the lawyer and all the family to read the will 
before you have done toasting yourself. Go and wake that 
girl; and then light the stove in the shed: you cant have 
your breakfast here. And mind you wash yourself, and 
make yourself fit to receive the company. ([S4e punctuates 
these orders by going to the cupboard; unlocking it; and pro- 
ducing a decanter of wine, which has no doubt stood there un- 
touched since the last state occasion in the family, and some 
glasses, which she sets on the table. Also two green ware plates, 
on one of which she puts a barnbrack with a knife beside it. 
Ox the other she shakes some biscuits out of a tin, putting back 
one or two, and counting the rest]. Now mind: there are 
ten biscuits there: let there be ten there when I come back 
after dressing myself. And keep your fingers off the raisins 
in that cake. And tell Essie the same. I suppose I can 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple I 3 


trust you to bring in the case of stuffed birds without 
breaking the glass? [Sse replaces the tin in the cupboard, 
which she locks, pocketing the key carefully). 

cHRISTY [Angering at the fre| Youd better put the ink- 
stand instead, for the lawyer. 

MRS DUDGEON. Thats no answer to make to me, sir. Go 
and do as youre told. [Céristy turns sullenly to obey]. Stop: 
take down that shutter before you go, and let the daylight 
in: you cant expect me to do all the heavy work of the 
house with a great heavy lout like you idling about. 

Christy takes the window bar out of its clamps, and puts it 
aside; then opens the shutter, shewing the grey morning. Mrs 
Dudgeon takes the sconce from the mantelshelf; blows out the 
candle ; extinguishes the snuff by pinching it with her fingers, first 
licking them for the purpose; and replaces the sconce on the shelf. 

cHRIsSTY [looking through the window] Here’s the minister’s 
wife. 

MRS DUDGEON [displeased] What! Is she coming here? 

CHRISTY. Yes. 

MRS DUDGEON. What does she want troubling meat this 
hour, before I’m properly dressed to receive people? 

cHrisTy. Youd better ask her. 

MRS DUDGEON [fhreateningly| Youd better keep a civil 
tongue in your head. [He goes sulkily towards the door. She 
comes after him, plying him with instructions]. ‘Tell that girl to 
come to me as soon as she’s had her breakfast. And tell 
her to make herself fit to be seen before the people. 
[Christy goes out and slams the door in her face]. Nice 
manners, that! [Someone knocks at the house door: she turns 
and cries inhospitably| Come in. [fudith Anderson, the 
minister's wife, comes in. Fudith is more than twenty years 
younger than ber husband, though she will never be as young 
as he in vitality. She is pretty and proper and ladylike, and has 
been admired and petted into an opinion of herself sufficiently 
favorable to give her a self-assurance which serves her instead 
of strength. Ste has a pretty taste in dress, and in ler face the 
pretty lines of a sentimental character formed by dreams. Even 


14 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


fer little self-complacency is pretty, like a child’s vanity. 
Rather a pathetic creature to any sympathetic observer who 
knows how rough a place the world is. One feels, on the whole, 
that Anderson might have chosen worse, and that she, needing 
protection, could not have chosen better]. Oh, it’s you, is it, 
Mrs Anderson? 

jupiTH [very politely—almost patronizingly| Yes. Can I 
do anything for you, Mrs Dudgeon? Can [I help to get 
the place ready before they come to read the will? 

MRS DUDGEON [stifiy| Thank you, Mrs Anderson, my 
house is always ready for anyone to come into. 

MRS ANDERSON [with complacent amiability] Yes, indeed it 
is. Perhaps you had rather I did not intrude on you just now. 

MRS DUDGEON. Oh, one more or less will make no 
difference this morning, Mrs Anderson. Now that youre 
here, youd better stay. If you wouldnt mind shutting the 
door! [Fudith smiles, implying “ How stupid of me!” and 
shuts it with an exasperating air of doing something pretty and 
becoming|. ‘Thats better. I must go and tidy myself a bit. 
I suppose you dont mind stopping here to receive anyone 
that comes until I’m ready. 

jupitH [graciously giving her leave| Oh yes, certainly. 
Leave them to me, Mrs Dudgeon; and take your time. 
[Ste hangs her cloak and bonnet on the rack\. 

MRS DUDGEON [Aa/f sneering] I thought that would be 
more in your way than getting the house ready. [Essie 
comes back}. Oh, here you are! [Severely] Come here: let 
me see you. [Essie timidly goes to her. Mrs Dudgeon takes 
her roughly by the arm and pulls her round to inspect the 
results of her attempt to clean and tidy herself — results which 
shew little practice and less conviction}. Mm! Thats what 
you call doing your hair properly, I suppose. It’s easy to 
see what you are, and how you were brought up. [&4e 
throws fer arm away, and goes on, peremptorily] Now you 
listen to me and do as youre told. You sit down there in 
the corner by the fire; and when the company comes 
dont dare to speak until youre spoken to. [ Essie creeps away 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 15 


to the fireplace]. Your father’s people had better see you 
and know youre there: theyre as much bound to keep 
you from starvation as I am. At any rate they might help. 
But let me have no chattering and making free with them, 
as if you were their equal. Do you hear? 

ESSIE. Y€S. 

MRS DUDGEON. Well, then go and do as youre told. 
[ Essie sits down miserably on the corner of the fender furthest 
from the door]. Never mind her, Mrs Anderson: you know 
who she is and what she is. If she gives you any trouble, 
just tell me; and I'l] settle accounts with her. [Mrs 
Dudgeon goes into the bedroom, shutting the door sharply behind 
her as if even it had to be made do its duty with a ruthless 
band). 

jupitH [ patronizing Essie, and arranging the cake and wine 
on the table more becomingly| You must not mind if your 
aunt is strict with you. She is a very good woman, and 
desires your good too. 

ESSIE [i listless misery] Yes. 

JupitH [annoyed with Essie for her failure to be consoled 
and edified, and to appreciate the kindly condescension of the 
remark| You are not going to be sullen, I hope, Essie. 

ESSIE. No. 

jupirH. Thats a good girl! [S4e places a couple of chairs 
at the table with their backs to the window, with a pleasant 
sense of being a more thoughtful housekeeper than Mrs Dudgeon). 
Do you know any of your father’s relatives? 

essiE. No. They wouldnt have anything to do with 
him: they were too religious. Father used to talk about 
Dick Dudgeon; but I never saw him. 

JupiTH [ostentatiously shocked | Dick Dudgeon! Essie: do 
you wish to be a really respectable and grateful girl, and to 
make a place for yourself here by steady good conduct? 

EssiE [very half-heartedly| Yes. 

jupirH. Then you must never mention the name of 
Richard Dudgeon — never even think about him. He isa 
bad man. 


16 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


essigE. What has he done? 

jupirH. You must not ask questions about him, Essie. 
You are too young to know what it is to be a bad man. 
But he is a smuggler; and he lives with gypsies ; and he 
has no love for his mother and his family ; and he wrestles 
and plays games on Sunday instead of going to church. 
Never let him into your presence, if you can help it, 
Essie ; and try to keep yourself and all womanhood un- 
spotted by contact with such men. 

ESSIE. Yes. 

jupitH [again displeased| I am afraid you say Yes and No 
without thinking very deeply. 

Essig. Yes. At least I mean — 

jupitH [severe/y] What do you mean? 

EssiE [almost crying| Only—my father was a smuggler ; 
and—|[Someone knocks}. 

jupirH. They are beginning tocome. Now remember 
your aunt’s directions, Essie ; and be a good girl. [CAristy 
comes back with the stand of stuffed birds under a glass case, 
and an inkstand, which he places on the table). Good morning, 
Mr Dudgeon. Will you open the door, please: the people 
have come. 

curisty. Good morning. [He opens the house door). 

The morning is now fairly bright and warm; and Anderson, 
who is the first to enter, has left his cloak at home. He is 
accompanied by Lawyer Hawkins, a brisk, middleaged man in 
brown riding gaiters and yellow breectes, looking as much squire 
as solicitor. He and Anderson are allowed precedence as repre- 
senting the learned professions. After them comes the family, 
headed by the senior uncle, William Dudgeon, a large, shape- 
less man, bottle-nosed and evidently no ascetic at table. His 
clothes are not the clothes, nor his anxious wife the wife, of a 
prosperous man. The junior uncle, Titus Dudgeon, is a wiry 
little terrier of a man, with an immense and visibly purseproud 
wife, both free from the cares of the William household. 

Hawkins at once goes briskly to the table and takes the chair 
nearest the sofa, Christy having left the inkstand there. He 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple £7 


puts fis hat on the floor beside him, and produces the will, 
Uncle William comes to the fire and stands on the hearth warm- 
ing his coat tails, leaving Mrs William derelict near the door. 
Uncle Titus, who is the lady’s man of the family, rescues Fer 
by giving her his disengaged arm and bringing her to the sofa, 
where he sits down warmly between his own lady and his 
brother's, Anderson hangs up his hat and waits for a word 
with Fudith. 

jupiTH. She will be here in a moment. Ask them to 
wait. [Se taps at the bedroom door. Receiving an answer 
from within, she opens it and passes through]. 

ANDERSON [taking his place at the table at the opposite end 
to Hawkins| Our poor afflicted sister will be with us in a 
moment. Are we all here? 

cuRisty [at the house door, which he has just shut] All 
except Dick. 

The callousness with which Christy names the reprobate jars 
on the moral sense of the family. Uncle William shakes his 
head slowly and repeatedly. Mrs Titus catches ber breath con- 
vulsively through her nose. Her husband speaks. 

uNncLE TITUS. Well, I hope he will have the grace not 
to come. I hope so. 

The Dudgeons all murmur assent, except Christy, who goes 
to the window and posts himself there, looking out. Hawkins 
smiles secretively as if fe knew something that would change 
their tune if they knew it. Anderson is uneasy: the love of 
solemn family councils, especially funereal ones, is not in his 
nature. ‘fudith appears at the bedroom door. 

jupiTH [with gentle impressiveness| Friends, Mrs Dudgeon. 
[She takes the chair from beside the fireplace; and places it 
for Mrs Dudgeon, who comes from the bedroom in black, with 
a clean handkerchief to ter eyes. AU rise, except Essie. 
Mrs Titus and Mrs William produce equally clean handker- 
chiefs and weep. It is an affecting moment]. 

UNCLE WILLIAM. Would it comfort you, sister, if we 
were to offer up a prayer? 

UNCLE TiITus, Or sing a hymn? 

Cc 


18 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


ANDERSON [rather hastily] I have been with our sister 
this morning already, friends. In our hearts we ask a 
blessing. 

ALL [except Essie] Amen. 

They all sit down, except Fudith, who stands behind Mr 
Dudgeon’s chair. 

jupitH [to Essie] Essie : did you say Amen? 

ESSIE [scaredly| No. 

jupirH. Then say it, like a good girl. 

EssiE. Amen. 

UNCLE WILLIAM [ezcouragingly| Thats right: thats right. 
We know who you are; but we are willing to be kind to 
you if you are a good girl and deserve it. Weare all equal 
before the Throne. 

This republican sentiment does not please the women, who 
are convinced that the Throne is precisely the place where their 
superiority, often questioned in this world, will be recognized 
and rewarded. 

curisty [at the window] Here’s Dick. 

Anderson and Hawkins look round sociably. Essie, with a 
gleam of interest breaking through her misery, looks up. Christy 
grins and gapes expectantly at the door. The rest are petrified 
with the intensity of their sense of Virtue menaced with outrage 
by the approach of flaunting Vice. The reprobate appears in the 
doorway, graced beyond his alleged merits by the morning sun- 
light. He is certainly the best looking member of the family; 
but his expression is reckless and sardonic, his manner defiant 
and satirical, his dress picturesquely careless. Only, his fore- 
head and mouth betray an extraordinary steadfastness; and 
his eyes are the eyes of a fanatic. 

RICHARD [0% the threshold, taking off his hat) Ladies and 
gentlemen: your servant, your very humble servant. [Wits 
this comprehensive insult, he throws his hat to Christy with a 
suddenness that makes him jump like a negligent wicket keeper, 
and comes into the middle of the room, where he turns and de- 
liberately surveys the company]. How happy you all look! 
how gladtosee me! [He turns towards Mrs Dudgeon’s chair ; 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 19 


and his lip rolls up horribly from his dog tooth as he meets her 
look of undisguised hatred|. Well, mother: keeping up 
appearances as usual? thats right, thats right. [fadith 
pointedly moves away from his neighborhood to the other side 
of the kitchen, holding her skirt instinctively as if to save it 
from contamination. Uncle Titus promptly marks his approval 
of her action by rising from the sofa, and placing a chair for her 
to sit down upon|. What! Uncle William! I havnt seen 
you since you gave up drinking. [Poor Uncle William, 
shamed, would protest; but Richard claps him heartily on his 
shoulder, adding] you have given it up, havnt you? [re/eas- 
ing him with a playful push| of course you have: quite right 
too: you overdid it. [He turns away from Uncle William 
and makes for the sofa]. And now, where is that upright 
horsedealer Uncle Titus? Uncle Titus: come forth. [He 
comes upon him holding the chair as Fudith sits down]. As 
usual, looking after the ladies ! 

UNCLE TiTUs [zzdiguantly] Be ashamed of yourself, sir — 

RICHARD [Zuterrupting him and shaking his hand in spite of 
4im| Tam: Iam; but lam proud of my uncle — proud of 
all my relatives —[again surveying them] who could look at 
them and not be proud and joyful? [Uncle Titus, overborne, 
resumes his seat on the sofa, Richard turns to the table]. Ah, 
Mr Anderson, still at the good work, still shepherding 
them. Keep them up to the mark, minister, keep them 
up to the mark. Come! [w/th a spring he seats himself on 
the table and takes up the decanter) clink a glass with me, 
Pastor, for the sake of old times. 

ANDERSON. You know, I think, Mr Dudgcon, that I do 
not drink before dinner. 

RICHARD. You will, some day, Pastor: Uncle William 
used to drink before breakfast. Come: it will give your 
sermons unction. [He smells the wine and makes a wry face]. 
But do not begin on my mother’s company sherry. I stole 
some when I was six years old; and I have been a tem- 
perate man ever since. [He puts the decanter down and 
changes the subject], So 1 hear you are married, Pastor, 


20 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


and that your wife has a most ungodly allowance of good 
looks. 

ANDERSON [quietly indicating Fudith] Sir: you are in the 
presence of my wife. [Fudith rises and stands with stony 
propriety |. 

RICHARD [quickly slipping down from the table with instinc- 
tive good manners| Your servant, madam: no offence. [He 
looks at her earnestly]. You deserve your reputation ; but ’m 
sorry to see by your expression that youre a good woman. 
[Ste looks shocked, and sits down amid a murmur of indignant 
sympathy from his relatives. Anderson, sensible encugh to know 
that these demonstrations can only gratify and encourage a man 
who is deliberately trying to provoke them, remains perfectly 
good-umored |. All the same, Pastor, I respect you more than 
I did before. By the way, did I hear, or did I not, that 
our late lamented Uncle Peter, though unmarried, was a 
father? 

uNCcLE TiITus. He had only one irregular child, sir. 

RICHARD. Only one! He thinks one a mere trifle! 
I blush for you, Uncle Titus. 

anDERSON. Mr Dudgeon: you are in the presence of 
your mother and her grief. 

RICHARD. It touches me profoundly, Pastor. By the 
way, what has become of the irregular child? 

ANDERSON [ pointing to Essie] ‘There, sir, listening to 
you. 
RICHARD [socked into sincerity] What! Why the devil 
didnt you tell me that before? Children suffer enough in 
this house without —[He furries remorsefully to Essie]. 
Come, little cousin! never mind me: it was not meant to 
hurt you. [S/e looks up gratefully at him. Her tearstained 
face affects him violently; and he bursts out, in a transport of 
wrath} Who has been making her cry? Who has been ill- 
treating her? By God — 

MRS DUDGEON [rising and confronting him| Silence your 
blasphemous tongue. I will bear no more of this. Leave 
my house. 


Act 1 The Devil’s Disciple 21 


RICHARD. How do you know it’s your house until the 
will is read? [They look at one another for a moment with 
intense hatred; and then she sinks, checkmated, into her chair. 
Richard goes boldly up past Anderson to the window, where he 
takes the railed chair in his hand|. Ladies and gentlemen: 
as the eldest son of my late father, and the unworthy 
head of this household, I bid you welcome. By your leave, 
Minister Anderson: by your leave, Lawyer Hawkins. 
The head of the table for the head of the family. [He 
places the chair at the table between the minister and the attor- 
ney; sits down between them; and addresses the assembly with 
a presidential air}. We meet on a melancholy occasion: a 
father dead! an uncle actually hanged, and probably 
damned. [He shakes his head deploringly. The relatives freeze 
with horror). Thats right: pull your longest faces [zs 
voice suddenly sweetens gravely as his glance lights on Essie] 
provided only there is hope in the eyes of the child. 
[ Briskly] Now then, Lawyer Hawkins: business, business. 
Get on with the will, man. 

Titus. Do not let yourself be ordered or hurried, Mr 
Hawkins. 

HAWKINS [very politely and wwillingly| Mr Dudgeon means 
no offence, I feel sure. I will not keep you one second, 
Mr Dudgeon. Just while I get my glasses—[+e fumbles for 
them. The Dudgeons look at one another with misgiving). 

RICHARD. Aha! They notice your civility, Mr Hawkins. 
They are prepared for the worst. A glass of wine to clear 
your voice before you begin. [He pours out one for him and 
hands it; then pours one for himself |. 

HAWKINS. ‘hank you, Mr Dudgeon. Your good health, 
sir. 

RICHARD. Yours, sir. [With the glass half way to his lips, 
be checks himself, giving a dubious glance at the wine, and adds, 
with quaint intensity] Will anyone oblige me with a glass of 
water? 

Essie, who has been hanging on his every word and move- 
ment, rises stealthily and slips out behind Mrs Dudgeon through 


22 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


the bedroom door, returning presently with a jug and going out 
of the house as quietly as possible. 

HAWKINS. The will is not exactly in proper legal phrase- 
ology. 

RICHARD. No: my father died without the consolations 
of the law. 

HAWKINS. Good again, Mr Dudgeon, good again. [ Pre- 
paring to read| Are you ready, sir? 

RICHARD. Ready, aye ready. For what we are about 
to receive, may the Lord make us truly thankful. Go 
ahead, 

HAWKINS [reading] “This 1s the last will and testament 
of me Timothy Dudgeon on my deathbed at Nevinstown 
on the road from Springtown to Websterbridge on this 
twenty-fourth day of September, one thousand seven hun- 
dred and seventy seven. I hereby revoke all former wills 
made by me and declare that I am of sound mind and 
know well what I am doing and that this is my real will 
according to my own wish and affections.” 

RICHARD [glancing at his mother| Aha! 

HAWKINS [shaking his head] Bad phraseology, sir, wrong 
phraseology. “‘I give and bequeath a hundred pounds to 
my younger son Christopher Dudgeon, fifty pounds to be 
paid to him on the day of his marriage to Sarah Wilkins if 
she will have him, and ten pounds on the birth of each 
of his children up to the number of five.” 

RICHARD. How if she wont have him? 

cHristy. She will if I have fifty pounds. 

RICHARD. Good, my brother. Proceed. 

HAWKINS. “1 give and bequeath to my wife Annie 
Dudgeon, born Annie Primrose’?— you see he did not 
know the law, Mr Dudgeon: your mother was not born 
Annie: she was christened so— “‘an annuity of fifty-two 
pounds a year for life [Mrs Dudgeon, with all eyes on her, 
holds herself convulsively rigid) to be paid out of the interest 
on her own money ”—there’s a way to put it, Mr Dud- 
geon! Her own money! 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 23 


MRS DUDGEON. A very good way to put God’s truth. 
It was every penny my own. Fifty-two pounds a year! 

Hawkins, “And I recommend her for her goodness 
and piety to the forgiving care of her children, having 
stood between them and her as far as I could to the best 
of my ability.” 

mrs pupGEoN. And this is my reward! [ Raging inwardly] 
You know what I think, Mr Anderson: you know the 
word I gave to it. 

ANDERSON. It cannot be helped, Mrs Dudgeon. We 
must take what comes to us. [Zo Hawkins]. Go on, 
sir. 

HAWKINS. “I give and bequeath my house at Webster- 
bridge with the land belonging to it and all the rest of 
my property soever to my eldest son and heir, Richard 
Dudgeon.” 

RICHARD. Oho! The fatted calf, Minister, the fatted 
calf. 

Hawkins. “*On these conditions —” 

RICHARD. The devil! Are there conditions? 

Hawkins. ‘To wit: first, that he shall not let my brother 
Peter’s natural child starve or be driven by want to an 
evil life.” 

RICHARD [emphatically, striking his fist on the table] Agreed, 

Mrs Dudgeon, turning to look malignantly at Essie, misses 
her and looks quickly round to see where she has moved to; 
then, seeing that she has left the room without leave, closes her 
lips vengefully. 

HAWKINS. “ Second, that he shall be a good friend to 
my old horse Jim” — [again shaking his head| he should 
have written James, sir. 

RICHARD. James shall live in clover. Go on. 

HAWkiINns. — ‘‘and keep my deaf farm labourer Prodger 
Feston in his service.” 

RICHARD. Prodger Feston shall get drunk every Saturday. 

Hawkins, “ Third, that he make Christy a present on 
his marriage out of the ornaments in the best room,’ 


24 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


RICHARD [Aolding up the stuffed birds] Here you are, 
Christy. 

curisTy [disappointed| I'd rather have the china pea- 
cocks. 

RICHARD. You shall have both. ([Céristy is greatly 
pleased |. Go on. 

Hawkins. ‘ Fourthly and lastly, that he try to live at 
peace with his mother as far as she will consent to it.” 

RICHARD [dudiously] Hm! Anything more, Mr Hawkins? 

HAWKINS [solemnly] ‘Finally I give and bequeath my 
soul into my Maker’s hands, humbly asking forgiveness for 
all my sins and mistakes, and hoping that He will so guide 
my son that it may not be said that I have done wrong in 
trusting to him rather than to others in the perplexity of 
my last hour in this strange place.” 

ANDERSON. Amen. 

THE UNCLES AND AUNTS. Amen. 

RICHARD. My mother does not say Amen. 

MRS. DUDGEON [rising, unable to give up her property with- 
out a struggle] Myr Hawkins: is that a proper will? 
Remember, I have his rightful, legal will, drawn up by 
yourself, leaving all to me. 

HAWKINS. This is a very wrongly and irregularly worded 
will, Mrs Dudgeon ; though [turning politely to Richard | 
it contains in my judgment an excellent disposal of his 
property. 

ANDERSON [interposing before Mrs Dudgeon can retort] 
That is not what you are asked, Mr Hawkins. Is it a 
legal will? 

HAWKINS. The courts will sustain it against the other. 

ANDERSON. But why, if the other is more lawfully 
worded? 

HAwkKiNs. Because, sir, the courts will sustain the claim 
of a man—and that man the eldest son —against any 
woman, if they can. I warned you, Mrs Dudgeon, when 
you got me to draw that other will, that it was not a wise 
will, and that though you might make him sign it, he 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 2 


would never be easy until he revoked it. But you wouldnt 
take advice ; and now Mr Richard is cock of the walk. 
[He takes his hat from the ficor ; rises; and begins pocketing 
his papers and spectacles}. 

This is the signal for the breaking-up of the party. 
Anderson takes his hat from the rack and joins Uncle William 
at the fire. Titus fetches Fudith her things from the rack, 
The three on the sofa rise and chat with Hawkins. Mrs 
Dudgeon, now an intruder in her own house, stands inert, 
crushed by the weight of the law on women, accepting it, as she 
has been trained to accept all monstrous calamities, as proofs of 
the greatness of the power that inflicts them, and of her own 
wormlike insignificance. For at this time, remember, Mary 
Wollstonecraft is as yet only a girl of eighteen, and her Vin- 
dication of the Rights of Women is still fourteen years off. 
Mrs Dudgeon is rescued from her apathy by Essie, who comes 
back with the jug full of water. She is taking it to Richard 
when Mrs Dudgeon stops fer. 

MRS DUDGEON [threatening her| Where have you been? 
[ Essie, appalled, tries to answer, but cannot]. How dare you 
go out by yourself after the orders I gave you? 

Essig. He asked for a drink — [she stops, fer tongue 
cleaving to her palate with terror}. 

jupITH [with gentler severity] Who asked for a drink? 
[ Essie, speechless, points to Richard |. 

RICHARD. What! I! 

jupiTH [shocked] Oh Essie, Essie! 

RICHARD. I believe I did. [He takes a glass and holds it 
to Essie to be filled. Her hand shakes}. What! afraid of me? 

ESSIE [quickly] No. 1—([Ste pours out the water). 

RICHARD [tasting it} Ah, youve been up the street to the 
market gate spring to get that. [He takes a draught]. 
Delicious! Thank you. [Uxfortunately, at this moment he 
chances to catch sight of ‘fuditn’s face, which expresses the 
most prudish disapproval of his evident attraction for Essie, 
who is devouring him with her grateful eyes. His mocking 
expression returns instantly. He puts down the glass; deliber- 


26 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


ately winds his arm round Essie’s shoulders; and brings her 
into the middle of the company. Mrs Dudgeon being in Essie’s 
way as they come past the table, he says) By your leave, 
mother [and compels her to make way for them]. What do 
they call you? Bessie? 

ESSIE, Essie. 

RICHARD. Essie, to be sure. Are you a good girl, Essie? 

EssIE [greatly disappointed that he, of all people, should begin 
at her in this way| Yes. [She looks doubtfully at Fudith). I 
think so. I mean I—I hope so. 

RICHARD. Essie: did you ever hear of a person called 
the devil? 

ANDERSON [revolted] Shame on you, sir, with a mere 
child — 

RICHARD. By your leave, Minister: I do not interfere 
with your sermons: donot you interrupt mine. [Zo Essie] 
Do you know what they call me, Essie? 

EsstE. Dick. 

RICHARD [amused: patting ler on the shoulder| Yes, Dick; 
but something else too. They call me the Devil’s Dis- 
ciple. 

Essie. Why do you let them? 

RICHARD [seriously] Because it’s true. I was brought up 
in the other service; but I knew from the first that the 
Devil was my natural master and captain and friend. I 
saw that he was in the right, and that the world cringed to 
his conqueror only through fear. I prayed secretly to him; 
and he comforted me, and saved me from having my spirit 
broken in this house of children’s tears. I promised him 
my soul, and swore an oath that 1 would stand up for him 
in this world and stand by him in the next. [So/emnly] 
That promise and that oath made a manof me. From this 
day this house is his home; and no child shall cry in it: 
this hearth is his altar; and no soul shall ever cower over 
itin the dark evenings and be afraid. Now [turuing forcibly 
on the rest) which of you good men will take this child and 
rescue her from the house of the devil? 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 277 


JuDITH [coming to Essie and throwing a protecting arm about 
ber| J will. You should be burnt alive. 

EssiE. But I dont want to. [She shrinks back, leaving 
Richard and Fudith face to face}. 

RICHARD [to Fudith] Actually doesnt want to, most vir- 
tuous lady ! 

UNCLE TITUS. Have a care, Richard Dudgeon. ‘The 
law — 

RICHARD [turning threateningly on him| Have a care, you. 
In an hour from this there will be no law here but martial 
law. I passed the soldiers within six miles on my way 
here: before noon Major Swindon’s gallows for rebels will 
be up in the market place. 

ANDERSON [calmly] What have we to fear from that, 
sir? 

RICHARD. More than you think. He hanged the wrong 
man at Springtown: he thought Uncle Peter was respect- 
able, because the Dudgeons had a good name. But his 
next example will be the best man in the town to whom 
he can bring home a rebellious word. Well, we’re all 
rebels ; and you know it. 

ALL THE MEN [except Anderson] No, no, no! 

RICHARD. Yes, you are. You havnt damned King 
George up hill and down dale as I have ; but youve prayed 
for his defeat ; and you, Anthony Anderson, have conducted 
the service, and sold your family bible to buy a pair of 
pistols. They maynt hang me, perhaps; because the moral 
effect of the Devil’s Disciple dancing on nothing wouldnt 
help them. But a minister! [fudith, dismayed, clings to 
Anderson| or a lawyer! [Hawkins smiles like a man able to 
take care of himself] or an upright horsedealer! [Uncle Titus 
snarls at him in rage and terror| or a reformed drunkard! 
[Uncle William, utterly unnerved, moans and wobbles with fear] 
eh? Would that shew that King George meant business 
—ha? 

ANDERSON [ perfectly self-possessed | Come, my dear: he is 
only trying to frighten you. There is no danger. [He takes 


28 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


her out of the house. The rest crowd to the door to follow him, 
except Essie, who remains near Richard}. 

RICHARD [ boisterously derisive] Now then: how many of 
you will stay with me; run up the American flag on the 
devil’s house ; and make a fight for freedom? [ They scramble 
out, Christy among them, hustling one another in their haste| 
Ha ha! Long live the devil! [Zo Mrs Dudgeon, who is 
following them] What, mother! Are you off too? 

MRS DUDGEON [deadly pale, with her hand on her heart as if 
she had received a deathblow| My curse on you! My dying 
curse! [S/e goes out}. 

RICHARD [calling after her| It will bring me luck. Ha 
ha ha! 

EssiE [anxiously| Maynt I stay? 

RICHARD [‘urning to Fer] What! Have they forgotten to 
save your soul in their anxiety about their own bodies? 
Oh yes: you may stay. [fe turns excitedly away again and 
shakes his fist after them. His left fist, also clenched, hangs 
down. Essie seizes it and kisses it, her tears falling on it. He 
starts and looks at it|). ‘Tears! The devil’s baptism! [SZe 
falls on her knees, sobbing. He stoops goodnaturedly to raise her, 
saying} Oh yes, you may cry that way, Essie, if you like. 


ACT II 


Minister Anderson’s house is in the main street of Webster- 
bridge, not far from the town hall. To the eye of the eighteenth 
century New Englander, it is much grander than the plain 
farmbouse of the Dudgeons; but it is so plain itself that a 
modern house agent would let both at about the same rent. 
The chief dwelling room has the same sort of kitchen fireplace, 
with boiler, toaster hanging on the bars, movable iron griddle 
socketed to the hob, hook above for roasting, and broad fender, 
on which stand a kettle and a plate of buttered toast. The 
door, between the fireplace and the corner, has neither panels, 
jingerplates nor handles: it is made of plain boards, and fastens 
with a latch. The table is a kitchen table, with a treacle 
colored cover of American cloth, chapped at the corners by drap- 
ing. The tea service on it consists of two thick cups and saucers 
of the plainest ware, with milk jug and bowl to match, each 
large enough to contain nearly a quart, on a black japanned 
tray, and, in the middle of the table, a wooden trencher with a 
big loaf upon it, and a square half pound block of butter in a 
crock. The big oak press facing the fire from the opposite side 
of the room, is for use and storage, not for ornament; and the 
minister's house coat hangs on a peg from its door, skewing that 
fe is out; for when he is in, it is his best coat that hangs there. 
His big riding boots stand beside the press, evidently in their 
usual place, and rather proud of themselves. In fact, the evo- 
lution of the minister's kitchen, dining room and drawing room 
into three separate apartments has not yet taken place; and so, 


30 Three Plays for Puritans = Act I 


rom the point of view of our pampered period, he is no better 
off than the Dudgeons. 

But there is a difference, for all that. To begin with, Mrs 
Anderson is a pleasanter person to live with than Mrs Dudgeon. 
To which Mrs Dudgeon would at once reply, with reason, that 
Mrs Anderson has no children to look after; no poultry, pigs 
nor cattle; a steady and sufficient income not directly dependent on 
harvests and prices at fairs; an affectionate husband who is a 
tower of strength to her: in short, that life is as easy at the 
minister’s house as it is hard at the farm. This is true; but to 
explain a fact is not to alter it; and however little credit Mrs 
Anderson may deserve for making ter home happier, she has 
certainly succeeded in doing it. The outward and cisible signs 
of her superior social pretensions are, a drugget on the floor, a 
plaster ceiling between the timbers, and chairs which, though not 
upholstered, are stained and polished. The fine arts are repre- 
sented by a mexzotint portrait of some Presbyterian divine, a 
copperplate of Raphael's St Paul preaching at Athens, a rococo 
presentation clock on the mantelskelf, flanked by a couple of 
miniatures, a pair of crockery dogs with baskets in their mouths, 
and, at the corners, two large cowrie shells. A pretty feature 
of the room is the low wide latticed window, nearly its whole 
width, with little red curtains running on a rod half way up 
it to serve as a blind. There is no sofa; but one of the seats, 
standing near the press, has a railed back and is long enough to 
accommodate two people easily. On the whole, it is rather the 
sort of room that the nineteenth century has ended in struggling 
to get back to under the leadership of Mr Philip Webb and his 
disciples in domestic architecture, though no genteel clergyman 
would have tolerated it fifty years ago. 

The evening has closed in; and the room is dark except for 
the cosy firelight and the dim oil lamps seen through the window 
in the wet street, where there is a quiet, steady, warm, windless 
downpour of rain. As the town clock strikes the quarter, Fudith 
comes in with a couple of candles in earthenware candlesticks, 
and sets them on the table. Her self-conscious airs of the morn- 
ing are gone: she is anxious ana frightened. She goes to the 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple an 


window and peers into the street. The first thing she sees there is 
ber husband, hurrying home through the rain. Ste gives a little 
gasp of relief, not very far removed from a sob, and turns to the 
door. Anderson comes in, wrapped in a very wet cloak. 


jupiTH [running to him] Oh, here you are at last, at last! 
[She attempts to embrace him). 

ANDERSON [keeping her off | Take care, my love: I’m wet. 
Wait till I get my cloak off. [He places a chair with its back 
to the fire; hangs his cloak on it to dry; shakes the rain from 
his hat and puts it on the fender ; and at last turns with his hands 
outstretched to Fudith|. Now! [She fies into bis arms]. I am 
not late,am I? The town clock struck the quarter as I came 
in at the front door. And the town clock is always fast. 

jupitH. [’msure it’s slow this evening. I’m so glad youre 
back, 

ANDERSON [taking her more closely in his arms| Anxious, my 
dear? 

jupiTH. A little. 

ANDERSON. Why, youve been crying. 

jupiTH. Only a little. Never mind: it’s all over now. 
[.4 bugle call is heard in the distance. She starts in terror and 
retreats to the long seat, listening.| Whats that? 

ANDERSON [ following her tenderly to the seat and making her 
sit down with him| Only King George, my dear. He’s return- 
ing to barracks, or having his roll called, or getting ready for 
tea, or booting or saddling or something. Soldiers dont ring 
the bell or call over the banisters when they want anything: 
they send a boy out with a bugle to disturb the whole town. 

jupirH. Do you think there is really any danger? 

ANDERSON. Not the least in the world. 

JupiITH. You say that to comfort me, not because you be- 
lieve it. 

ANDERSON. My dear: in this world there is always 
danger for those who are afraid of it. There’s a danger that 
the house will catch fire in the night ; but we shant sleep 
any the less soundly for that. 


32 Three Plays for Puritans = Act If 


jupirH. Yes, I know what you always say; and youre 
guite right. Oh, quite right: I know it. But—I suppose 
Vm not brave: thats all. My heart shrinks every time I 
think of the soldiers. 

ANDERSON. Never mind that, dear: bravery is none the 
worse for costing a little pain. 

jupitH. Yes, I suppose so. [Embracing him again| Oh 
how brave you are, my dear! [W27th tears in her eyes] Well, 
T'll be brave too: you shant be ashamed of your wife. 

ANDERSON. Thats right. Now you make me happy. Well. 
well! [He rises and goes cheerily to the fire to dry his shoes). 
I called on Richard Dudgeon on my way back; but he 
wasnt In. 

jupiTH [rising in consternation} You called on that man! 

ANDERSON [reassuring ler] Oh, nothing happened, dearie. 
He was out. 

jupitH [almost in tears, as if the visit were a personal humili- 
ation to fer) But why did you go there? 

ANDERSON [grave/y|] Well, it is all the talk that Major 
Swindon is going to do what he did in Springtown — make 
an example of some notorious rebel, as he calls us. He 
pounced on Peter Dudgeon as the worst character there ; 
and it is the general belief that he will pounce on Richard 
as the worst here. 

jup1ITH. But Richard said — 

ANDERSON [goodhumoredly cutting her short] Pooh! Richard 
said! Hesaid what he thought would frighten you and frighten 
me, my dear. He said what perhaps (God forgive him!) he 
would like to believe. It’s a terrible thing to think of what 
death must mean for a man like that. I felt that I must 
warn him. I left a message for him. 

jupitH [guerulously] What message? 

ANDERSON. Only that I should be glad to see him for a 
moment on a matter of importance to himself, and that if 
he would look in here when he was passing he would be 
welcome. 

jupitu [aghast] You asked that man to come here! 


Act Il The Devil’s Disciple 22 


ANDERSON. I did. 

jupitH [sinking on the seat and clasping her hands| I hope 
he wont come! Oh, I pray that he may not come! 

ANDERSON. Why? Dont you want him to be warned? 

jupiTH. He must know his danger. Oh, Tony, is it wrong 
to hate a blasphemer and a villain? I do hate him. I cant 
get him out of my mind: I know he will bring harm with 
him. He insulted you: he insulted me: he insulted his 
mother. 

ANDERSON [guaintly] Well, dear, let’s forgive him; and 
then it wont matter. 

jupirH. Oh, I know it’s wrong to hate anybody; but — 

ANDERSON [going over toler with humorous tenderness! Come, 
dear, youre not so wicked as you think. The worst sin to- 
wards our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be in- 
different to them: thats the essence of inhumanity. After 
all, my dear, if you watch people carefully, youll be sur- 
prised to find how like hate is to love. [S4e starts, strangely 
toucled—even appalled. He is amused at fer|. Yes: I’m quite 
in earnest. Think of how some of our married friends worry 
one another, tax one another, are jealous of one another, 
cant bear to let one another out of sight for a day, are more 
like jailers and slave-owners than lovers. ‘Think of those 
very same people with their enemies, scrupulous, lofty, self- 
respecting, determined to be independent of one another, 
careful of how they speak of one another—pooh! havent 
you often thought that if they only knew it, they were better 
friends to their enemies than to their own husbands and 
wives? Come: depend on it, my dear, you are really fonder 
of Richard than you are of me, if you only knew it. Eh! 

JupirH. Oh, dont say that: dont say that, Tony, even 
in jest. You dont know what a horrible feeling it gives 
me. 
ANDERSON [/aughing] Well, well: never mind, pet. 
He’s a bad man; and you hate him as he deserves. And 
youre going to make the tea, arnt you? 

jupirH $[remorsefully] Oh yes, I forgot. Ive been 

D 


24 Three Plays for Puritans = Act JI 


keeping you waiting all this time. [Se goes to the fire and 
puts on the kettle}. 

ANDERSON [ going to the press and taking his coat off) Have 
you stitched up the shoulder of my old coat? 

jupirH. Yes, dear. [S/e goes to the table, and sets about 
putting the tea into the teapot from the caddy). 

ANDERSON [as he changes his coat for the older one hanging 
on the press, and replaces it by the one he has just taken off | 
Did anyone call when I was out? 

jupirH. No, only —[Someone knocks at the door. With 
a start which betrays her intense nervousness, she retreats to 
the further end of the table with the tea caddy and spoon in her 
hands, exclaiming\ Who’s that? 

ANDERSON [going to her and patting her encouragingly on 
the shoulder| All right, pet, all right. He wont eat you, 
whoever he is. [S4e tries to smile, and nearly makes herself 
cry. He goes to the door and opens it. Richard is there, with- 
out overcoat or cloak}. You might have raised the latch and 
come in, Mr Dudgeon. Nobody stands on much ceremony 
with us. [Hospitably] Come in. [Richard comes in carelessly 
and stands at the table, looking round the room with a slight 
pucker of his nose at the mezzotinted divine on the wall. 
Fudith keeps her eyes on the tea caddy). Is it still raining? 
[| He shuts the door}. 

RICHARD. Raining like the very [Avs eye catches Fudith’s 
as she looks quickly and haughtily up| — I beg your pardon ; 
but [sheewing that his coat is wet| you see —! 

ANDERSON. Take it off, sir; and let it hang before the 
fire a while: my wife will excuse your shirtsleeves. 
Judith : put in another spoonful of tea for Mr Dudgeon. 

RICHARD [eyeing him cynically] The magic of property, 
Pastor! Are even you civil to me now that I have suc- 
ceeded to my father’s estate? 

Fudith throws down the spoon indignantly. 

ANDERSON [quite unruffied, and helping Richard off with 
his coat\ I think, sir, that since you accept my hospitality, 
you cannot have so bad an opinion of it. Sit down. [With 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple 35 


the coat in his hand, he points to the railed seat. Richard, in his 
shirtsleeves, looks at Fim half quarrelsomely for a moment ; then, 
with a nod, acknowledges that the minister has got the better of 
Him, and sits down on the seat. Andcrson pushes his cloak into 
a heap on the seat of the chair at the fire, and hangs Richard’s 
coat on the back in its place}. 

RICHARD. I come, sir, on your own invitation. You left 
word you had something important to tell me. 

ANDERSON. I have a warning which it is my duty to give 
you. 

RICHARD [guick/y rising] You want to preach to me. 
Excuse me: I prefer a walk in the rain [4e makes for his 
coat. 

ANDERSON [stopping fim| Dont be alarmed, sir: I am no 
great preacher. You are quite safe. [Richard smiles in 
spite of himself. His glance softens: he even makes a gesture 
of excuse. Anderson, seeing that he has tamed tim, now 
addresses him earnestly}. Mr Dudgeon: you are in danger 
In this town. 

RICHARD. What danger? 

ANDERSON. Your uncle’s danger. Major Swindon’s 
gallows. 

RICHARD. It is you who are in danger. I warned you — 

ANDERSON [interrupting him goodhumoredly but authorita- 
tively| Yes, yes, Mr Dudgeon; but they do not think so 
in the town. And even if I were in danger, I have duties 
here which I must not forsake. But you are a free man. 
Why should you run any risk? 

RICHARD. Do you think I should be any great loss, 
Minister? 

ANDERSON. I think that a man’s life is worth saving, 
whoever it belongs to. [Richard makes him an ironical bow. 
Anderson returns the bow humorously}. Come: youll have a 
cup of tea, to prevent you catching cold? 

RICHARD. I observe that Mrs Anderson is not quite so 
pressing as you are, Pastor. 

JupiTH [almost stifled with resentment, which she has been 


36 Three Plays for Puritans — Act I 


expecting her husband to share and express for her at every 
insult of Richard’s| You are welcome for my husband’s 
sake. [She brings the teapot to the fireplace and sets it on the 
hob). 

RICHARD. I know I am not welcome for my own, 
madam. [He rises]. But I think I will not break bread 
here, Minister. 

ANDERSON [c/eeri/y] Give me a good reason for that. 

RICHARD. Because there is something in you that | 
respect, and that makes me desire to have you for my 
enemy. 

ANDERSON. Thats well said. On those terms, sir, I will 
accept your enmity or any man’s. Judith: Mr Dudgeon 
will stay to tea. Sit down: it will take a few minutes to 
draw by the fire. [Richard glances at him with a troubled 
face; then sits down with his head bent, to hide a convulsive 
swelling of his throat]. I was just saying to my wife, 
Mr Dudgeon, that enmity —[S%e grasps his hand and looks 
imploringly at him, doing both with an intensity that checks 
him at once}. Well, well, I mustnt tell you, I see; but it 
was nothing that need leave us worse friend — enemies, I 
mean. Judith is a great enemy of yours. 

RICHARD. If all my enemies were like Mrs Anderson, I 
should be the best Christian in America. 

ANDERSON [ gratified, patting her hand] You hear that, 
Judith? Mr Dudgeon knows how to turn a compliment. 

The latch is lifted from without. 

juDITH [starting | Who 1s that? 

Christy comes in. 

cHRIsTy [stopping and staring at Richard] Oh, are you 
here? 

RICHARD. Yes. Begone, you fool: Mrs Anderson doesnt 
want the whole family to tea at once. 

cHRISTY [coming furtler in} Mother’s very ill. 

RICHARD. Well, does she want to see me? 

cHRisTy. No. 

RICHARD. I thought not, 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple OF, 


cHristTy. She wants to see the minister — at once. 

jupiTH [to Anderson] Oh, not before youve had some tea. 

ANDERSON. I shall enjoy it more when I come back, 
dear. [He is about to take up his cloak}. 

curisty. The rain’s over. 

ANDERSON [dropping the cloak and picking up bis hat from 
the fender| Where is your mother, Christy? 

curisty. At Uncle Titus’s. 

ANDERSON. Have you fetched the doctor? 

curisty. No: she didnt tell me to. 

ANDERSON. Go on there at once: I'll overtake you on 
his doorstep. [C4Aristy turns to go]. Wait a moment. Your 
brother must be anxious to know the particulars. 

RICHARD. Psha! not I: he doesnt know; and I dont 
care. [Violently] Be off, you oaf. [Christy runs out. Richard 
adds, a little shamefacedly| We shall know soon enough. 

ANDERSON. Well, perhaps you will let me bring you the 
news myself. Judith: will you give Mr Dudgeon his tea, 
and keep him here until I return. 

jupiTH [white and trembling | Must I— 

ANDERSON [taking her hands and interrupting her to cover 
Ler agitation) My dear: I can depend on you? 

jupITH [with a piteous effort to be worthy of his trust] Yes. 

ANDERSON [ pressing her hand against his cheek} You will 
not mind two old people like us, Mr Dudgeon. [Goizg] 
I shall not say good evening: you will be here when I 
come back. [fe goes out]. 

They watch him pass the window, and then look at each other 
dum bly, quite disconcerted. Richard, noting the quiver of her 
lips, is the first to pull himself together. 

RICHARD. Mrs Anderson: I am perfectly aware of the 
nature of your sentiments towards me. I shall not intrude 
on you. Good evening. [Again fe starts for the fireplace to 
get his coat}. 

jupiTH [getting between him and the coat} No, no. Dont 
go: please dont go. 

RICHARD [rowgh/y] Why? You dont want me here. 


38 Three Plays for Puritans = Act TI 


jupirH. Yes, I1— [Wringing fer hands in despair| Oh, 
if I tell you the truth, you will use it to torment me. 

RICHARD [indignantly] Torment! What right have you 
to say that? Do you expect me to stay after that? 

jupirH. I want you to stay; but [suddenly raging at him 
like an angry child] it is not because If like you. 

RICHARD. Indeed! 

jupirH. Yes: I had rather you did go than mistake me 
about that. I hate and dread you; and my husband knows 
it. If you are not here when he comes back, he will believe 
that I disobeyed him and drove you away. 

RICHARD [ironically] Whereas, of course, you have really 
been so kind and hospitable and charming to me that I 
only want to go away out of mere contrariness, eh? 

Fudith, unable to bear it, sinks on the chair and bursts into 
Lears. 

RICHARD. Stop, stop, stop, I tell you. Dont do that. 
[Putting his hand to his breast as if to a wound) He wrung 
my heart by being a man. Need you tear it by being a 
woman? Has he not raised you above my insults, like 
himself? [S/e stops crying, and recovers herself somewhat, 
looking at kim with a scared curiosity|. There: thats right. 
[ Sypathetically| Youre better now, arnt you? [He puts fis 
hand encouragingly on her shoulder. She instantly rises haughtily, 
and stares at him defiantly. He at once drops into his usual 
sardonic tene|. Ah, thats better. You are yourself again: 
so is Richard. Well, shall we go to tea like a quiet re- 
spectable couple, and wait for your husband’s return? 

jupitH [rather ashamed of terself| If you please. I—I 
am sorry to have been so foolish. [Se stoops to take up tle 
plate of toast from the fender]. 

RICHARD. I am sorry, for your sake, that I am — what 
Iam. Allow me. [He takes the plate from Fer and goes with 
it to the table}. 

yupity [ fellowing with the teapot] Will you sit down? 
[He sits down at the end of the table nearest the press. There 
is a plate and knife laid there. The other plate is laid near tt; 


Act I] The Devil’s Disciple 39 


but ‘Fudith stays at the opposite end of the table, next the frre, 
and takes her place there, drawing the tray towards her]. Do 
you take sugar? 

RICHARD. No; but plenty of milk. Let me give you 
some toast. [He puts some on the second plate, and hands it to 
her, with the knife. The action skews quietly how well he knows 
that she has avoided her usual place so as to be as far from him 
as possible). 

yupitH [consciously] Thanks. [She gives him his tea). 
Wont you help yourself? 

RICHARD. Thanks. [fle puts a piece of toast on his own 
plates; and she pours out tea for ferself). 

jupitH [observing that he tastes nothing] Dont you like 
it? You are not eating anything. 

RICHARD. Neither are you. 

jupiITH [wervous/y] I never care much for my tea. 
Please dont mind me. 

RICHARD [ooking dreamily round| lam thinking. It 1s all 
so strange to me. I can see the beauty and peace of this 
home: I think I have never been more at rest in my life 
than at this moment; and yet I know quite well I could 
never live here. It’s not in my nature, I suppose, to be 
domesticated. But it’s very beautiful: it’s almost holy. 
| He muses a moment, and then laughs softly). 

jupiTH [guickly| Why do you laugh? 

RICHARD. I was thinking that if any stranger came in 
here now, he would take us for man and wife. 

jupiITH [taking offence] You mean, I suppose, that you 
are more my age than he is. 

RICHARD [staring at this unexpected turn| I never thought 
of such a thing. [Sardonic again]. I see there is another 
side to domestic joy. 

jupITH [angrily] I would rather have a husband whom 
everybody respects than — than— 

RICHARD, Than the devil’s disciple. You are right ; 
but I daresay your love helps him to be a good man, just 
as your hate helps me to be a bad one. 


40 Three Plays for Puritans = Act I 


jyupirH. My husband has been very good to you. He 
has forgiven you for insulting him, and is trying to save 
you. Can you not forgive him for being so much better 
than you are? How dare you belittle him by putting 
yourself in his place? 

RICHARD. Did I? 

juDITH. Yes, you did. You said that if anybody came 
in they would take us for man and — [S/e stops, terror- 
stricken, as a squad of soldiers tramps past the window). The 
English soldiers! Oh, what do they — 

RICHARD [/istening] Sh! 

A voice [outside] Halt! Four outside: two in with me. 

Fudith half rises, listening and looking with dilated eyes at 
Richard, who takes up tis cup prosaically, and is drinking (Fis 
tea when the latch goes up with a sharp click, and an English 
sergeant walks into the room with two privates, who post them- 
selves at the door. He comes promptly to the table between 
them. 

THE SERGEANT. Sorry to disturb you, mum. Duty! 
Anthony Anderson: J arrest you in King George’s name 
as a rebel. 

jupitH [pointing at Richard] But that is not —[He Jocks 
up quickly at her, with a face of iron. Ste stops her mouth 
hastily with the hand she has raised to indicate him, and stands 
staring affrightedly |. 

THE SERGEANT. Come, parson: put your coat on and 
come along. 

RICHARD. Yes: J’ll come. [He rises and takes a step 
towards his own coat; then recollects himself, and, with his back 
to the sergeant, moves his gaze slowly round the room without 
turning his head until he sees Anderson’s black coat hanging up 
on the press. He goes composedly to it; takes it down; and 
puts it on. The idea of himself as a parson tickles him: he 
looks dowun at the black sleeve on his arm, and then smiles slyly 
at Fudith, whose white face skews him that what she is painfully 
struggling to grasp is not the humor of the situation but its 
horror. He turns to the sergeant, who is approaching him with 


Act I The Devil’s Disciple 41 
a pair of handcuffs hidden behind him, and says lightly] Did 


you ever arrest a man of my cloth before, Sergeant? 

THE SERGEANT [instinctively respectful, half to the black 
coat, half to Richard's good breeding] Well, no sir. At least, 
only an army chaplain. [Sewing the handcuffs}. Vm sorry 
sir; but duty — 

RICHARD. Just so, Sergeant. Well, I’m not ashamed of 
them: thank you kindly for the apology. [He 4olds out his 
hands). 

SERGEANT [wot availing himself of the offer] One gentleman 
to another, sir. Wouldnt you like to say a word to your 
missis, sir, before you go? 

RICHARD [smiling] Oh, we shall meet again before — 
ch? [meaning “‘ before you hang me’’). 

SERGEANT [/oudly, with ostentatious cheerfulness] Oh, of 
course, of course. No call for the lady to distress herself. 
Still — [zw @ lower voice, intended for Richard alone| your 
last chance, sir. 

They look at one anotler significantly for a moment. Then 
Richard exhales a deep breath and turns towards Fudith, 

RICHARD [very distinctly] My love. [She looks at him, 
pitiably pale, and tries to answer, but cannot — tries also to 
come to him, but cannot trust herself to stand without the sup- 
port of the table]. This gallant gentleman is good enough 
to allow us a moment of leavetaking. [Te sergeant retires 
delicately and joins Lis men near the door|. He 1s trying to 
spare you the truth; but you had better knowit. Are you 
listening to me? [S4e signifies assent}. Do you understand 
that I am going to my death? [Ste signifies that she under- 
stands|. Remember, you must find our friend who was 
with us just now. Do you understand? [S/e signifies yes]. 
See that you get him safely out of harm’s way. Dont for 
your life let him know of my danger; but if he finds it 
out, tell him that he cannot save me: they would hang 
him; and they would not spare me. And tell him that J 
am steadfast in my religion as he is in his, and that he may 
depend on me to the death. [le turns to go, and meets the 


42 iencee: Plays for Puritans. « Act I 


eye of the sergeant, who looks a little suspicious. He considers 
a moment, and then, turning roguishly to fudith with something 
of a smile breaking through his earnestness, says] And now, 
my dear, I am afraid the sergeant will not believe that you 
love me like a wife unless you give one kiss before I go. 

He approaches fer and tolds out his arms. Ste quits the 
table and almost falls into them. 

jupITH [the words choking cer] I ought to— it’s murder — 

RICHARD. No: only a kiss [soft/y to fer] for his sake. 

jupira. I cant. ~Y-ou must — 

RICHARD [ folding fer in his arms with an impulse of com- 
passion for Fer distress! My poor girl! 

Juaith, with a sudden effort, throws Fer arms round him; 
kisses hint; and swoons away, dropping from his arms to the 
ground as if the kiss had killed her. 

RICHARD [going quickly to the sergeant) Now, Sergeant: 
quick, before she comes to. The handcuffs. [He puts out 
his hands}. 

SERGEANT [ pocketing them| Never mind, sir: I'll trust 
you. Youre a game one. You ought to a bin a soldier, 
sir. Between them two, please. [TZ#e soldiers place them- 
selves one before Richard and one belind him. The sergeant 
opens the door). 

RICHARD [taking a last look round him] Goodbye, wife: 
goodbye, home. Muffle the drums, and quick march! 

The sergeant signs to the leading soldier to march, They 
POLE OUT GUECR Ui eR SAE AR, AR AE BR Sh eR eo 
* When Anderson returns from Mrs Dudgeon’s, fe is aston- 
isked to find the room apparently empty and almost in darkness 
except for the glow from the fire; for one of the candles has 
burnt out, and the other is at its last flicker. 

ANDERSON. Why, what on earth—? [Ca//ing] Judith, 
Judith! [He “istens: there is no answer), Hm! [He goes 
to the cupboard; takes a canale from the drawer, lights it at 
the flicker of the expiring one on the table; and looks wonder- 
ingly at the untasted meal by its light. Then te sticks it in 
the candlestick; takes off his hat; and scratches his head, much 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple 43 


puzzled. This action causes tim to look at the floor for the 
first time; and there te sees Fudith lying motionless with fer 
eyes closed. He runs to ker and stoops beside her, lifting fer 
tead|. Judith. 

jupitH [waking ; for fer swoon has passed into the sleep of 
exhaustion after suffering| Yes. Did you call? Whats the 
matter ? 

ANDERSON. Ive just come in and found you lying here 
with the candles burnt out and the tea poured out and 
cold. What has happened? 

jupiTH [sti// astray] I dont know. Have I been asleep? 
I suppose — [S/e stops blankly}. I dont know. 

ANDERSON [groaning | Heaven forgive me, I left you alone 
with that scoundrel. [Fudith remembers. With an agonized 
cry, she clutches Fis shoulders and drags herself to her feet as te 
rises with Fer. He clasps her tenderly in bis arms|. My poor 

et! 
: yuDITH [ frantically clinging to him| What shall Il do? Oh 
my God, what shall I do? 

ANDERSON. Never mind, never mind, my dearest dear: 
it was my fault. Come: youre safe now; and youre not 
hurt, are you? [He takes his arms from her to see whether 
she can stand). ‘There: thats night, thats right. If only you 
are not hurt, nothing else matters. 

jupirH. No, no, no: I’m not hurt. . 

ANDERSON. ‘hank Heaven for that! Come now: [/ead- 
ing her to the railed seat and making her sit down beside him] 
sit down and rest: you can tell me about it to-morrow. 
Or [misunderstanding Fer distress| you shall not tell me at 
allifit worries you. There, there! [C/eerfu/ly] 1’ll make 
you some fresh tea: that will set you up again. [Tle goes 
to the table, and empties the teapot into the slop bow!]. 

juDITH [2# a strained tone| ‘Tony. 

ANDERSON. Yes, dear? 

jupirH. Do you think we are only in a dream now: 

ANDERSON [glancing round at her for a moment with a pang 


of anxiety, though Le goes on steadily and cheerfully putting 


44 Three Plays for Puritans — Act I 


Sresh tea into the pot| Perhaps so, pet. But you may as well 
dream a cup of tea when youre about it. 

jupiTH. Oh stop, stop. You dont know— [ Distracted, 
she buries her face in ler knotted hands}. 

ANDERSON [breaking down and coming to ter] My dear, 
what is it?) I cant bear it any longer: you must tell me. 
Tt was all my fault: J was mad to trust him. 

jupiTH. No: dont say that. You mustnt saythat. He 
—oh no, no: Icant. Tony: dont speak to me. Take 
my hands—both my hands. [He takes them, wondering]. 
Make me think of you, not of him. There’s danger, fright- 
ful danger; but it is your danger; and I cant keep thinking 
of it: I cant, I cant: my mind goes back to his danger. He 
must be saved—no: you must be saved: you, you, you. 
[Se springs up as if to do something or go somewlere, exclaim- 
ing| Oh, Heaven help me! 

ANDERSON [keeping fis seat and holding her hands with 
resolute composure] Calmly, calmly, my pet. Youre quite 
distracted. 

jupiTH. I may well be. I dont know what to do. I 
dont know what to do. [Tearing her hands away]. I must 
save him. [Anderson rises in alarm as she runs wilaly to the 
door. It ts opened in her face by Essie, who furries in full of 
anxiety. The surprise is so disagreeable to Fudith that it 
brings her to her senses. Her tone is sharp and angry as she 
demands| What do you want? 

ESSIE. I was to come to you. 

ANDERSON. Who told you to? 

EssIE [staring at him, as if his presence astonished her| Are 
you here? 

JupirH. Of course. Dont be foolish, child. 

ANDERSON. Gently, dearest: youll frighten her. [Going 
between them}. Come here, Essic. [S/e comes to him). 
Who sent you? 

EsstE. Dick. He sent me word bya soldier. I was to 
come here at once and do whatever Mrs Anderson told me. 

ANDERSON [enlightened] A soldier! Ah, I see it all now! 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple 45 


They have arrested Richard. [Fudith makes a gesture of 
despair. 

ESSIE. No. I asked the soldier. Dick’s safe. But the 
soldier said you had been taken. 

ANDERSON. I! [ Bewildered, he turns to Fudith for an 
explanation |. 

jupitH [coaxingly| All right, dear: I understand. [72 
Essie] Thank you, Essie, for coming ; but I dont need 
you now. You may go home. 

ESSIE [suspicious] Are you sure Dick hasnot been touched? 
Perhaps he told the soldier to say it was the minister. 
[ Anxiously| Mrs Anderson: do you think it can have been 
that? 

ANDERSON. Tell her the truth if it is so, Judith. She 
will learn it from the first neighbor she meets in the 
street. [‘fudith turns away and covers fer eyes with her 
hands |. 

EssIE [evai/ing| But what will they do to him? Oh, 
what will they do to him? Will they hang him? [Fudith 
shudders convulsively, and throws herself into the chair in which 
Richard sat at tle tea table). 

ANDERSON [ patting Essie’s shoulder and trying to comfort 
her| I hope not. I hope not. Perhaps if youre very quiet 
and patient, we may be able to help him in some way. 

EssIE. Yes— help him —yes, yes, yes. I?ll be good. 

ANDERSON. I must go to him at once, Judith. 

JuDITH [springing up| Oh no. You must go away — far 
away, to some place of safety. 

ANDERSON. Pooh! 

jupITH [ passionately| Do you want to kill me? Do you 
think I can bear to live for days and days with every knock 
at the door — every footstep — giving me a spasm of terror? 
to lie awake for nights and nights in an agony of dread, 
listening for them to come and arrest you? 

ANDERSON. Do you think it would be better to know 
that I had run away from my post at the first sign of 
danger? 


46 Three Plays for Puritans = Act I 


jupiTH [dtter/y] Oh, you wont go. I know it. Youll 
stay; and I shall go mad. 

ANDERSON. My dear, your duty — 

jupiTH [ fierce/y] What do I care about my duty! 

ANDERSON [socked] Judith! 

jupiTH. | am doing my duty. I am clinging to my duty. 
My duty is to get you away, to save you, to leave him to 
his fate [Esse utters a cry of distress and sinks on the chair 
at the fire, sobbing silently|, My instinct is the same as hers 
—to save him above all things, though it would be so 
much better for him to die! so much greater! But I know 
you will take your own way as he took it. I have no 
power. [Se sits down sullenly on the railed seat} I’m only 
a woman : I can do nothing but sit here and suffer. Only, 
tell him I tried to save you —that I did my best to save you. 

ANDERSON. My dear, I am afraid he will be thinking 
more of his own danger than of mine. 

jupITH. Stop; or I shall hate you. 

ANDERSON [remonstrating| Come, come, come! How 
am I to leave you if you talk like this? You are quite out 
of your senses. [He turns to Essie] Essie. 

ESSIE [eagerly rising and drying ber eyes| Yes? 

ANDERSON. Just walt outside a moment, like a good girl: 
Mrs Anderson is not well. [Essée looks doubtful]. Never 
fear: I’ll come to you presently; and [ll go to Dick. 

Essig. You are sure you will goto him? [Whispering]. 
You wont let her prevent you? 

ANDERSON [smiling] No, no: it’s all right. All right. 
[S4e goes]. Thats a good girl. [He closes the door, and re- 
turns to Fudith), 

juDiTH [seated — rigid] You are going to your death. 

ANDERSON [géaintly] Then I shall go in my best coat, 
dear. [He turns to the press, beginning to take off his coat}. 
Where —? [He stares at the empty nail for a moment; then 
looks quickly round to the fires strides across to it; and lifts 
Richarda’s coat}, Why, my dear, it seems that he has gone 
in my best coat. 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple 47 


juDITH [still motionless] Yes. 

anpverson. Did the soldiers make a mistake? 

jupirH. Yes: they made a mistake. 

ANDERSON. He might have told them. Poor fellow, he 
was too upset, I suppose. 

jupirw. Yes: he might have told them. So might I. 

ANDERSON. Well, it’s all very puzzling —almost funny. 
It’s curious how these little things strike us even in the 
most — [He breaks off and begins putting on Richara’s coat). 
I’d better take him his own coat. I know what he’ll say — 
[2mitating Richard’s sardonic manner] ““Anxious about my 
soul, Pastor, and also about your best coat.” Eh? 

jupirH. Yes, that is just what he will say to you. 
[Vacantly| It doesnt matter: I shall never see either of 
you again. 

ANDERSON [rallying fer] Oh pooh, pooh, pooh! [He sits 
down beside fer|. Is this how you keep your promise that 
I shant be ashamed of my brave wife? 

jupirH. No: this is how I break it. I cannot keep my 
promises to him: why should I keep my promises to you? 

ANDERSON. Dont speak so strangely, my love. It sounds 
insincere tome. [Ste looks unutterable reproach at him]. Yes, 
dear, nonsense is always insincere; and my dearest is talking 
nonsense. Just nonsense. [Her face darkens into dumb ob- 
stinacy. She stares straight before ler, and does not look at him 
again, absorbed in Richard’s fate. He scans her face; sees that 
his rallying has produced no effect; and gives it up, making no 
further effort to conceal his anxiety]. I wish I knew what has 
frightened you so. Was there a struggle? Did he fight? 

jupirnH. No. He smiled. 

ANDERSON. Did he realise his danger, do you think? 

jupiTH. He realised yours. 

ANDERSON. Mine! 

jupITH [onotonously| He said “See that you get him 
safely out of harm’s way.” I promised: I cant keep my 
promise. He said, “ Dont for your life let him know of 
my danger.’ Ive told you of it. He said that if you found 


48 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


it out, you could not save him — that they will hang him 
and not spare you. 

ANDERSON [rising in generous indignation) And you think 
that I will let a man with that much good in him die like 
a dog, when a few words might make him die like a Chris- 
tian. I’m ashamed of you, Judith. 

jup1TH. He will be steadfast in his religion as you are 
in yours; and you may depend on him to the death. He 
said so. 

ANDERSON. God forgive him! What else did he say? 

jupirH. He said goodbye. 

ANDERSON [ fidgeting nervously to and fro in great concern] 
Poor fellow, poor fellow! You said goodbye to him in all 
kindness and charity, Judith, I hope. 

jupitH. I kissed him. 

ANDERSON, What! Judith! 

JupirH. Are you angry? 

anDERSON. No, no. You were right: you were right. 
Poor fellow, poor fellow! [Greatly distressed] ‘To be 
hanged like that at his age! And then did they take him 
away? 

jubITH [wearily] Then you were here: thats the next 
thing I remember. I suppose I fainted. Now bid me 
goodbye, Tony. Perhaps I shall faint again. I wish I 
could die. 

ANDERSON. No, no, my dear: you must pull yourself 
together and be sensible. I am in no danger—not the 
least in the world. 

jupiTH [solemnly] You are going to your death, ‘Tony — 
your sure death, if God will let innocent men be mur- 
dered. They will not let you see him: they will arrest 
you the moment you give your name. It was for you the 
soldiers came. 

ANDERSON [thunderstruck| For me!!! [His fists clinch; 
his neck thickens; his face reddens; the fleshy purses under bis 
eyes become injected with hot blood; the man of peace vanishes, 
transfigured into a choleric and formidable man of war. Still, 


Act It The Devil’s Disciple 49 
she dees not come out of her absorption to look at him: her eyes 
are steadfast with a mechanical reflection of Richard’s stead- 
Fastness |. 

jupitH. He took your place: he is dying to save you. 
That is why he went in your coat. ‘That is why I kissed 
him. 

ANDERSON [exploding] Bloodan’ owns! [His voice is rough 
and dominant, his gesture full of brute energy|. Here! Essie, 
Essie | 

ESSIE [running in| Yes. 

ANDERSON [impetuous/y| Off with you as hard as you can 
run, to the inn. ‘Tell them to saddle the fastest and strong- 
est horse they have [Fudith rises breathless, and stares at him 
incredulous/y|—— the chestnut mare, if she’s fresh — without 
a moment’s delay. Go into the stable yard and tell the 
black man there that I’ll give him a silver dollar if the 
horse is waiting for me when I come, and that I am close 
on your heels. Away with you. [fis energy sends Essie 
fiying from the room. He pounces on his riding boots; rusles 
with them to the chair at the fires and begins pulling them on). 

jupitH [unable to beliece such a thing of him] You are 
not going to him! 

“ANDERSON [busy with tle boots] Going to him! What 
good would that do? [Growling to himself as be gets the first 
boot on with a wrench] Vl gotothem,sol will. [Zo Judith 
peremptorily| Get me the pistols: I want them. And 
money, money: I want money —all the money in the 
house. [He stoops over the other boot, grumbling| A great 
satisfaction it would be to him to have my company on 
the gallows. [He pulls on tte boot]. 

jupirH. You are deserting him, then? 

ANDERSON. Hold your tongue, woman; and get me the 
pistols. [Se goes to tle press and takes from it a leather belt 
with two pistols, a powder torn, and a bag of bullets attached 
toit. Ste throws it on the table. Then ste unlocks a drawer 
in the press and takes out a purse. Anderson grabs the belt and 
buckles it on, saying] If they took him for me in my coat, 

E 


50 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IJ 


perhaps theyll take me for himin his. [itching the belt 
into its place) DoJ look like him? 

juDITH [turning with the purse in fer hand\ Horribly un- 
like him. 

ANDERSON [suatching the purse from her and emptying it on 
the table] Hm! We shall see. 

jupDITH [sitting down Lelplessly| Is it of any use to pray, 
do you think, Tony? 

ANDERSON [counting the money) Pray! Can we pray 
Swindon’s rope off Richard’s neck? 

jupITH. God may soften Major Swindon’s heart. 

ANDERSON [contemptuously — pocketing a handful of money] 
Let him, then. I am not God; and I must go to work 
another way. [Fudith gasps at the blasphemy. He throws the 
purse on the table). Keep that. Ive taken 25 dollars. 

jupirH. Have you forgotten even that you are a minister? 

ANDERSON. Minister be —faugh! My hat: wheres my 
hat? [He snatches up hat and cloak, and puts both on in hot 
haste}. Now listen, you. If you can get a word with 
him by pretending youre his wife, tell him to hold his 
tongue until morning: that will give me all the start I 
need. 

jupitH [solemnly] You may depend on him to the 
death. 

ANDERSON. Youre a fool, a fool, Judith. [For a moment 
checking the torrent of his haste, and speaking with something 
of his old quiet and impressive conviction] You dont know the 
man youre married to. [Essie returns. He swoops at fer at 
once|. Well: is the horse ready? 

ESSIE [breathless] It will be ready when you come. 

ANDERSON. Good. [He makes for the door]. 

juDITH [rising and stretching out her arms after him invol- 
untarily| Wont you say goodbye? 

ANDERSON. And waste another half minute! Psha! [He 
rushes out like an avalanche}, 

essiE [Aurrying to Fudith| He has gone to save Richard, 
hasnt he? 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple cl 
jyupirH. Tosave Richard! No: Richard has saved him. 


He has gone to save himself. Richard must die. 
Essie screams with terror and falls on her knees, hiding her 


face. Fudith, without heeding her, locks rigidly straight in 
front of her, at the vision of Richard, dying. 


ACA 


Early next morning the sergeant, at the British headquarters 
in the Town Hall, unlocks the door of a little empty panelled 
waiting room, and invites fudith to enter. She has had a bad 
night, probably a rather delirious one; for even in the reality 
of the raw morning, her fixed gaze comes back at moments 
when her attention is not strongly held. 

The sergeant considers that her feelings do her credit, and 
is sympathetic in an encouraging military way. Being a fine 
figure of a man, vain of his uniform and of his rank, he feels 
specially qualified, in a respectful way, to console fer. 


SERGEANT. You can have a quiet word with him here, 
mum. 

jup1TH. Shall I have long to wait? 

SERGEANT. No, mum, not a minute. We kep him in 
the Bridewell for the night; and he’s just been brought 
over here for the court martial. Dont fret, mum: he slep 
like a child, and has made a rare good breakfast. 

jupiTH [izcredulously| He is in good spirits! 

SERGEANT. ‘Tip top, mum. The chaplain looked in to 
see him last night; and he won seventeen shillings off 
him at spoil five. He spent it among us like the gentle- 
man heis. Duty’s duty, mum, of course; but youre among 
friends here. [Zhe tramp of a couple of soldiers is heard 
approaching]. There: I think he’s coming. [Richard comes 
in, without a sign of care or captivity in his bearing. The 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple G2 


sergeant nods to the two soldiers, and skews them the key of 
the room in his hand. Tey withdraw]. Your good lady, sir. 

RICHARD [goimg to fer] What! My wife. My adored 
one. [He takes ler hand and kisses it with a perverse, raffish 
gallantry|. How long do you allow a brokenhearted hus- 
band for leave-taking, Sergeant? 

SERGEANT. As long as we can, sir. We shall not disturb 
you till the court sits. 

RICHARD. But it has struck the hour. 

SERGEANT. So it has, sir; but there’s a delay. General 
Burgoyne’s just arrived— Gentlemanly Johnny we call 
him, sir — and he wont have done finding fault with every- 
thing this side of half past. I know him, sir: I served 
with him in Portugal. You may count on twenty minutes, 
sir; and by your leave I wont waste any more of them. 
[“e goes out, locking the door, Richard immediately drops his 
rafish manner and turns to fudith with considerate sincerity]. 

RICHARD. Mrs Anderson : this visit is very kind of you. 
And how are you after last night? I had to leave you 
before you recovered; but I sent word to Essie to go and 
look after you. Did she understand the message? 

jupitH [breathless and urgent} Oh, dont think of me: 
T havnt come here to talk about myself. Are they going 
to — to — [meaning “ to hang you’)? 

RICHARD [z/imsically] At noon, punctually. At least, 
that was when they disposed of Uncle Peter. [S/e shudders]. 
Is your husband safe? Is he on the wing? 

jupiTH. He is no longer my husband. 

RICHARD [opening his eyes wide] Eh? 

jupitn. I disobeyed you. I told him everything. I ex- 
pected him to come here and save you. I wanted him to 
come here and save you. He ran away instead. 

RICHARD. Well, thats what I meant him to do. What 
good would his staying have done? Theyd only have hanged 
us both. 

jupiTH [with reproachful earnestness} Richard Dudgeon: 
on your honour, what would you have done in his place? 


54 Three Plays for Puritans Act III 


“RICHARD. Exactly what he has done, of course. 

jupitH. Oh, why will you not be simple with me — 
honest and straightforward? If you are so selfish as that, 
why did you let them take you last night? 

RICHARD [gai/y] Upon my life, Mrs Anderson, I dont 
know. Ive been asking myself that question ever since ; and 
I can find no manner of reason for acting as I did. 

jupiTH. You know you did it for his sake, believing he 
was a more worthy man than yourself. 

RICHARD [/aughing| Oho! No: thats a very pretty reason, 
I must say; but I’m not so modest as that. No: it wasnt 
for his sake. 

jupiTH [after a pause, during which she looks shamefacedly at 
him, blushing painfully) Was it for my sake? 

RICHARD [ga//antly] Well, you had a hand in it. It must 
have been a little for your sake. You let them take me, at 
all events. | 

jupirH. Oh, do you think I have not been telling myself 
that all night? Your death will be at my door. [Impulsively, 
she gives him ber hand, and adds, with intense earnestness| If I 
could save you as you saved him, I would do it, no matter 
how cruel the death was. 

RICHARD [Aolding her hand and smiling, but keeping fer al- 
most at arms length| | am very sure I shouldnt let you.. 

jupirH. Dont you see that I can save you? 

RICHARD. How? By changing clothes with me, eh? 

jupiTH [disengaging ler hand to touch his lips with it) Dont 
[meaning “ Dont zest”’). No: by telling the Court who you 
really are. 

RICHARD [ frocwvning| No use: they wouldnt spare me; 
and it would spoil half his chance of escaping. They are 
determined to cow us by making an example of somebody 
on that gallows to-day. Well, let us cow them by showing 
that we can stand by one another to the death. That is the 
only force that can send Burgoyne back across the Atlantic 
and make America a nation. 

jupiTH [impatiently| Oh, what does all that matter? 


Act HI The Devil’s Disciple 55 


’ ricHaRD [/aughing|] True: what does it matter? what 
does anything matter? You see, men have these strange 
notions, Mrs Anderson; and women see the folly of 
them. 

jupiTH. Women have to lose those they love through 
them. 

RICHARD. They can easily get fresh lovers. 

jupiTH [revolted| Oh! [Ve/emently] Do you realise that 
you are going to kill yourself? 

RICHARD. The only man I have any right to kill, Mrs 
Anderson. Dont be concerned: no woman will lose her 
lover through my death. [Smiling] Bless you, nobody cares 
for me. Have you heard that my mother is dead? 

jupirH. Dead! 

RICHARD. Of heart disease—in the night. Her last word 
to me was her curse: I dont think I could have borne her 
blessing. My other relatives will not grieve much on my 
account. Essie will cry fora dayor two; butI have provided 
for her: I made my own will last night. 

juDITH [stonily, after a moment’s silence} And I! 

RICHARD [surprised] You? 

jupirH. Yes, I. Am I not to care at all? 

RICHARD [gaz/y and bluntly| Not a scrap. Oh, you ex- 
pressed your feelings towards me very frankly yesterday. 
What happened may have softened you for the moment; 
but believe me, Mrs Anderson, you dont like a bone in my 
skin or a hair on my head. I shall be as good a riddance 
at 12 to-day as I should have been at 12 yesterday. 

jupitH [/er voice trembling] What can I do to shew you 
that you are mistaken. 

RICHARD. Dont trouble. Pll give you credit for liking me 
a little better than you did. All I say is that my death will 
not break your heart. 

jupitTH [a/most in a whisper) How do you know? [S/e 
puts her hands on tis shoulders and looks intently at him). 

RICHARD [amazed — divining the truth) Mrs Anderson! 
[Ze bell of tle tocwn clock strikes the quarter. He collects him- 


56 Three Plays for Puritans Act III 


self, and removes her hands, saying rather coldly| Excuse me: 
they will be here for me presently. It is too late. 

jupirH. Itis not too late. Call me as witness: they will 
never kill you when they know how heroically you have 
acted. 

RICHARD [zith some scorn] Indeed! But if I dont go 
through with it, where will the heroism be? I shall simply 
have tricked them; and theyll hang me for that like a dog. 
Serve me right too! 

jupiTH [zzildly] Oh, I believe you want to die. 

RICHARD [odstinately] No I dont. 

jupirH. ‘Then why not try to save yourself? I implore 
you —listen. You said just now that you saved him for 
my sake —yes [clutching him as te recoils with a gesture of 
denial) a little for my sake. Well, save yourself for my sake. 
And I will go with you to the end of the world. 

RICHARD [taking fer by the wrists and holding her a little 
cvay from him, looking steadily at Fer) Judith. 

jupitu [breathless — delighted at the name] Yes. 

RIcHARD. If I said —to please you —that I did what I 
did ever so little for your sake, I lied as men always lie to 
women. You know how much I have lived with worthless 
men—aye, and worthless women too. Well, they could all 
rise to some sort of goodness and kindness when they were 
in love [the word love comes from him with true Puritan scorn). 
That has taught me to set very little store by the goodness 
that only comes out red hot. What] did last night, I didin 
cold blood, caring not halfso much for your husband, or [rut/- 
lessly\ for you [ste droops, stricken] as I do for myself. I had 
no motive and no interest: all I can tell you is that when 
it came to the point whether I would take my neck out of 
the noose and put another man’s into it, I could not do it. 
I dont know why not: I see myself as a fool for my pains ; 
but I could not and I cannot. I have been brought up 
standing by the law of my own nature; and I may not go 
against it, gallows or no gallows. [S/e fas slowly raised her 
fead and is now looking full at him}. I should have done the 


Act IIL . The Devil’s Disciple 57 


same for any other man in the town, or any other man’s wife. 
[ Releasing fer) Do you understand that? 

jupitH. Yes: you mean that you do not love me. 

RICHARD [revolted — with fierce contempt| Is that all it 
means to you? 

jupiTH. What more—what worse —can it mean to me? 
[Z%e sergeant knocks. The blow on the door jars on fer keart). 
Oh, one moment more. [S/e throws ferself on her knees}. I 
pray to you — 

ricHarD. Hush! [Ca//ing| Come in. [Tle sergeant 
unlocks the door and opens it. The guard is with him]. 

SERGEANT [coming in| 'Time’s up, sir. 

RICHARD. Quite ready, Sergeant. Now, my dear. [He 
attempts to raise her}. 

jupITH [clinging to him| Only one thing more —I entreat, 
Iimplore you. Let me be present in the court. J have 
seen Major Swindon: he said I should be allowed if you 
asked it. You will ask it. It is my last request: I shall 
never ask you anything again. [S4e clasps /is kuce}. I beg 
and pray it of you. 

RICHARD. If I do, will you be silent? 

jupiTH. Yes. 

RICHARD. You will keep faith? 

jupitH. I will keep— [S/e breaks down, sobbing}. 

RICHARD [taking fer arm to lift her| Just — her other arm, 
Sergeant. 

They go out, she sobbing convulsively, supported by the two 
men. 

Meanwhile, the Council Clamber is ready for the court 
martial, It is a large, lofty room, with a chair of state in the 
middle under a tall canopy with a gilt crown, and maroon cur- 
tains with the royal monogram G.R. In front of the chair is 
a table, also draped in maroon, with a bell, a heavy inkstand, 
and writing materials on it. Several chairs are set at the tatl. 
Tle door is at the right hand of the occupant of the chair of state 
chen it has an occupant: at present it isempty. Major Swindon, 
a pale, sandy-haired, very conscientious looking man of about 45, 


58 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


sits at the end of the table with his back to the door, writing. 
He is alone until the sergeant announces the General in a sub- 
dued manner which suggests that Gentlemanly Fohnny has been 
making his presence felt rather heavily, 

SERGEANT. The General, sir. 

Swindon rises hastily. The general comes in: the sergeant 
goes out. General Burgoyne is 55, and very well preserved. 
He is a man of fastion, gallant enough to have made a dis- 
tinguisted marriage by an elopement, witty enough to write success- 
ful comedies, aristocratically-connected enough to have had oppor- 
tunities of high military distinction. His eyes, large, brilliant, 
apprehensive, and intelligent, are his most remarkable feature: 
without them his fine nose and small mouth would suggest rather 
more fastidiousness and less force than go to the making of a first 
rate general. Fust now the eyes are angry and tragic, and tle 
mouth and nostrils tense. 

BuRGOYNE. Major Swindon, I presume. 

swinpoxn. Yes. General Burgoyne, if I mistake not. 
[ They bow to one another ceremoniously|. I am glad to have the 
support of your presence this morning. Itis not particularly 
lively business, hanging this poor devil of a minister. 

BURGOYNE [throwing himself into Swindon’s chair| No, sir, 
itis not. It is making too much of the fellow to execute 
him: what more could you have done if he had been a 
member of the Church of England? Martyrdom, sir, is 
what these people like : it is the only way in which a man 
can become famous without ability. However, you have 
committed us to hanging him; and the sooner he is hanged 
the better: 

swinpon. We have arranged it for 12 o’clock. Nothing 
remains to be done except to try him. 

BURGOYNE [J/ooking at him with suppressed anger| Nothing 
—except to save our own necks, perhaps. Have you 
heard the news from Springtown? 

swinpon. Nothing special. The latest reports are 
satisfactory. 

BURGOYNE [rising in amazement| Satisfactory, sir! Satis- 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple 59 


factory!! [He stares at him for a moment, and then adds, 
with grim intensity] I am glad you take that view of them. 

swinpon [puzzled] Do I understand that in your 
opinion — 

BuRGOYNE. I do not express my opinion. I never stoop 
to that habit of profane language which unfortunately 
coarsens our profession. If I did, sir, perhaps I should be 
able to express my opinion of the news from Springtown 
—the news which you [severe/y] have apparently not 
heard. How soon do you get news from your supports 
here ?—1in the course of a month, eh? 

swinpon [turning sulky] I suppose the reports have been 
taken to you, sir, instead of to me. Is there anything 
serious? 

BURGOYNE [taking a report from his pocket and holding it 
up| Springtown’s in the hands of the rebels. [He throws 
the report on the table). 

swinpon [aghast] Since yesterday ! 

BURGOYNE, Since two o’clock this morning. Perhaps 
we shall be in their hands before two o’clock to-morrow 
morning. Have you thought of that? 

swINDON [confidently] As to that, General, the British 
soldier will give a good account of himself. 

BuRGOYNE [4/tter/y] And therefore, I suppose, sir, the 
British officer need not know his business: the British 
soldier will get him out of all his blunders with the 
bayonet. In future, sir, I must ask you to be a little less 
generous with the blood of your men, and a little more 
generous with your own brains. 

swinpon. I am sorry I cannot pretend to your intel- 
lectual eminence, sir. I can only do my best, and rely on 
the devotion of my countrymen. 

BuRGOYNE [suddenly becoming suavely sarcastic! May I ask 
are you writing a melodrama, Major Swindon ? 

swindon [ flushing] No, sir. 

BURGOYNE. What a pity! Whata pity! [Dropping his 
sarcastic tone and facing him suddenly and seriously} Do you 


60 Three Plays for Puritans Act III 


at all realize, sir, that we have nothing standing between 
us and destruction but our own bluff and the sheepishness 
of these colonists? ‘They are men of the same English 
stock as ourselves: six to one of us [repeating it emphatically] 
six to one, sir; and nearly half our troops are Hessians, 
Brunswickers, German dragoons, and Indians with scalping 
knives. ‘These are the countrymen on whose devotion you 
rely! Suppose the colonists find a leader! Suppose the 
news from Springtown should turn out to mean that they 
have already found a leader! What shall we do then? 
Eh? 

swinpon [su//enly| Our duty, sir, I presume. 

BURGOYNE [again sarcastic— giving him up as a fool] 
Quite so, quite so. Thank you, Major Swindon, thank 
you. Now youve settled the question, sir — thrown a flood 
of light on the situation. What a comfort to me to feel 
that I have at my side so devoted and able an officer to 
support me in this emergency! I think, sir, it will prob- 
ably relieve both our feelings if we proceed to hang this 
dissenter without further delay [Ze strikes the bell} especially 
as I am debarred by my principles from the customary 
military vent for my feelings. [Ze sergeant appears]. 
Bring your man in. 

SERGEANT. \'éS, Sir. 

BURGOYNE. And mention to any ofhcer you may meet 
that the court cannot wait any longer for him. 

swinpon [Keeping his temper with dificulty| The staff is 
perfectly ready, sir. ‘They have been waiting your con- 
venience for fully half-an-hour:, -Pertecrly ready,-sir. 

BURGOYNE [d/umd/y| So am I. [Several officers come in 
and take their seats. One of them sits at the end of the table 
furthest from the door, and acts throughout as clerk to the court, 
making notes of the proccedings. The uniforms are those of the 
gth, 20th, 21st, 24th, 47th, 53rd, and 62nd British Infantry. 
One officer is a Major General of the Royal Artillery. There 
are also German officers of the Hessian Rifles, and of German 
dragoon and Brunswicker regiments|. Oh, good morning, 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 61 


gentlemen. Sorry to disturb you, I am sure. Very good 
of you to spare us a few moments. 

swinpon. Will you preside, sir? 

BURGOYNE [becoming additionally polished, lofty, sarcastic 
and urbane now that he is in public) No, sir: I feel my own 
deficiencies too keenly to presume so far. If you will 
kindly allow me, I will sit at the feet of Gamaliel. [He 
takes the chair at the end of the table next the door, and motions 
Swindon to the chair of state, waiting for him to be seated 
before sitting down himself |. 

swINnDON [greatly annoyed| As you please, sir. I am only 
trying to do my duty under excessively trying circum- 
stances. [He takes his place in the chair of state}. 

Burgoyne, relaxing his studied demeanor for the moment, 
sits down and begins to read the report with knitted brows and 
careworn looks, reflecting on his desperate situation and Swindon’s 
uselessness. Richard is brought in. “Fudith walks beside him, 
Two soldiers precede and two follow him, with the sergeant in 
command. They cross the room to the wall opposite the door ; 
but when Richard has just passed before the chair of state the 
Sergeant stops him with a touch on the arm, and posts himself 
behind him, at his elbow. ‘Fudith stands timidly at the wall. 
The four soldiers place themselves in a squad near Ler. 

BURGOYNE [looking up and seeing Fudith| Who is that 
woman? 

SERGEANT. Prisoner’s wife, sir. 

swinpon [zervously| She begged me to allow her to be 
present; and I thought — 

BURGOYNE [completing the sentence for him ironically] You 
thought it would be a pleasure for her. Quite so, quite so. 
[ Blandly| Give the lady a chair; and make her thoroughly 
comfortable. 

The sergeant fetches a chair and places it near Richard. 

jupirH. Thank you, sir. [Se sits down after an awe- 
stricken curtsy to Burgoyne, which he acknowledges by a dig- 
nified bend of his head |. 


SWINDON [to Richard, sharply] Your name, sir? 


62 Three Plays for Puritans Act Ill 


RICHARD [affable, but obstinate| Come: you dont mean 
to say that youve brought me here without knowing who 
lam? 

SWINDON. As a matter of form, sir, give your name. 

RICHARD. Asa matter of form then, my name is Anthony 
Anderson, Presbyterian minister in this town. 

BURGOYNE [interested] Indeed! Pray, Mr Anderson, what 
do you gentlemen believe? 

RicHaRD. I shall be happy to explain if time is allowed 
me. I cannot undertake to complete your conversion in 
less than a fortnight. 

swinDon [subbing him] We are not here to discuss your 
VIEWS. 

BURGOYNE [with an elaborate bow to the unfortunate 
Swindon| 1 stand rebuked. 

swinpon [embarrassed] Oh, not you, I as — 

BurGoYNE. Dont mention it. [Zo Richard, very politely] 
Any political views, Mr Anderson? 

RICHARD. I understand that that is just what we are 
here to find out. 

swinpon [severe/y] Do you mean to deny that you are a 
rebel? 

RICHARD. I am an American, sir. 

swinpon. What do you expect me to think of that 
speech, Mr Anderson? 

RICHARD. I never expect a soldier to think, sir. 

Burgoyne is boundlessly delighted by this retort, which 
almost reconciles him to the loss of America. 

swinpon. [wAitening with anger| 1 advise you not to be 
insolent, prisoner. 

RicHarD. You cant help yourself, General. When you 
make up your mind to hang a man, you put yourself ata 
disadvantage with him. Why should I be civil to you? I 
may as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. 

swinDoN. You have no right to assume that the court 
has made up its mind without a fair trial. And you will 
please not address me as General. I am Major Swindon, 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 63 


ricHARD. A thousand pardons. I thought I had the 
honor of addressing Gentlemanly Johnny. 

Censation among the officers. The sergeant has a narrow 
escape from a guffaw. 

BURGOYNE [with extreme suavity| I believe I am Gentle- 
manly Johnny, sir, at your service. My more intimate 
friends call me General Burgoyne. [Richard bows with 
perfect politeness). You will understand, sir, I hope, since 
you seem to be a gentleman and a man of some spirit in 
spite of your calling, that if we should have the misfortune 
to hang you, we shall do so as a mere matter of political 
necessity and military duty, without any personal ill-feeling. 

RICHARD. Oh, quite so. That makes all the difference 
in the world, of course. 

They all smile in spite of themselves; ana some of the 
younger officers burst out laughing. 

jupiTH [4er dread and horror deepening at every one of these 
jests and compliments] How can you? 

RICHARD. You promised to be silent. 

BURGOYNE [fo Judith, with studied courtesy) Believe me, 
Madam, your husband ts placing us under the greatest obli- 
gation by taking this very disagreeable business so thoroughly 
in the spirit of a gentleman. Sergeant: give Mr Anderson 
a chair. [Zhe sergeant does so. Richard sits down). Now, 
Major Swindon : we are waiting for you. 

swinpon. You are aware, J presume, Mr Anderson, of 
your obligations as a subject of His Majesty King George 
the Third. 

RICHARD. I am aware, sir, that His Majesty King George 
the Third is about to hang me because I object to Lord 
North’s robbing me. 

SWINDON. That is a treasonable speech, sir. 

RICHARD [4rzefly| Yes. I meant it to be. 

BURGOYNE [strovgly deprecating this line of defence, but 
still polite) Dont you think, Mr Anderson, that this is 
rather —if you will excuse the word—a vulgar line to 
take? Why should you cry out robbery because of a stamp 


64 Three Plays for Puritans Act Ill 


duty and a tea duty and so forth? After all, it is the 
essence of your position as a gentleman that you pay with 
a good grace. 

RICHARD. It is not the money, General. But to be 
swindled by a pig-headed lunatic like King George — 

swinDon [scandalised| Chut, sir — silence! 

SERGEANT [27 stentorian tones, greatly shocked] Silence! 

BURGOYNE [uvruffied | Ah, that is another point of view. 
My position does not allow of my going into that, except 
in private. But [stragging fis shoulders| of course, Mr 
Anderson, if you are determined to be hanged [Fuadith 
fiincles| there’s nothing more to be said. An unusual 
taste! however [with a final shrug|—! 

swinpon [Zo Burgoyne] Shall we call witnesses? 

RICHARD. What need is there of witnesses? If the 
townspeople here had listened to me, you would have 
found the streets barricaded, the houses loopholed, and 
the people in arms to hold the town against you to the 
last man. But you arrived, unfortunately, before we had 
got out of the talking stage ; and then it was too late. 

swinpon [severely] Well, sir, we shall teach you and 
your townspeople a lesson they will not forget. Have you 
anything more to say? 

RICHARD. I think you might have the decency to treat 
me as a prisoner of war, and shoot me like a man instead 
of hanging me like a dog. 

BURGOYNE [sympathetically| Nowthere, Mr Anderson, you 
talk like a civilian, if you will excuse my saying so. Have 
you any idea of the average marksmanship of the army of 
His Majesty King George the Third? If we make you up 
a firing party, what will happen? Half of them will miss 
you: the rest will make a mess of the business and leave 
you to the provo-marshal’s pistol. Whereas we can hang 
vou ina perfectly workmanlike and agreeable way. [Kzzd/y] 
Let me persuade you to be hanged, Mr Anderson? 

jupitH [sick with horror] My God! 

RicHarD [Zo Fudith] Your promise! [Zo Burgoyne] 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 65 


Thank you, General: that view of the case did not occur 
to me before. T’o oblige you, [ withdraw my objection to 
the rope. Hang me, by all means. 

BURGOYNE [smoothly] Will 12 o’clock suit you, Mr 
Anderson? 

RicHARD. I shall be at your disposal then, General. 

BURGOYNE [rising] Nothing more to be said, gentlemen. 
[They all rise}. 

jupitH [rusting to the table] Oh, you are not going to 
murder a man like that, without a proper trial — without 
thinking of what you are doing — without — [s/e cannot 
find words| 

RICHARD. Is this how you keep your promise? 

jupirH. If I am not to speak, you must. Defend your- 
self: save yourself: tell them the truth. 

RICHARD [worriedly] I have told them truth enough to 
hang me ten times over. If you say another word you will 
risk other lives; but you will not save mine. 

purGcoYNE. My good lady, our only desire is to save un- 
pleasantness. What satisfaction would it give you to have 
a solemn fuss made, with my friend Swindon in a black cap 
and so forth? Iam sure we are greatly indebted to the admir- 
able tact and gentlemanly feeling shewn by your husband. 

jupitH [throwing the words in his face| Oh, you are mad. 
Is it nothing to you what wicked thing you do if only you 
do it like a gentleman? Is it nothing to you whether you 
are a murderer or not, if only you murder in a red coat? 
[ Desperately} You shall not hang him: that man is not 
my husband. 

The officers look at one another, and whisper: some of the 
Germans asking their neighbors to explain what the woman had 
said. Burgoyne, who has been visibly shaken by Fuditl’s re- 
proach, recovers himself promptly at this new development. 
Richard meanwhile raises his voice above the buzz. 

RICHARD. I appeal to you, gentlemen, to put an end to 
this. She will not believe that she cannot save me. Break 
up the court. 

F 


66 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


BURGOYNE [77 a woice so quiet and firm that it restores silence 
at once| One moment, Mr Anderson. One moment, gentle- 
men. [He resumes his seat. Swindon and the officers follow his 
example]. Let me understand you clearly, madam. Do you 
mean that this gentleman is not your husband, or merely 
— IJ wish to put this with all delicacy — that you are not 
his wife? 

jupitH. I dont know what you mean. I say that he is 
not my husband — that my husband has escaped. This man 
took his place to save him. Ask anyone in the town—send 
out into the street for the first person you find there, and 
bring him in asawitness. He will tell you that the prisoner 
is not Anthony Anderson. 

BURGOYNE [gietly, as before] Sergeant. 

SERGEANT. Yes Sir. 

BURGOYNE. Go out into the street and bring in the first 
townsman you see there. 

SERGEANT [making for the door| Yes sir. 

BURGOYNE [as the sergeant passes| The first clean, sober 
townsman you see. 

SERGEANT. Yes sir. [He goes out]. 

BURGOYNE. Sit down, Mr Anderson —if I may call you 
so for the present. [Richard sits down]. Sit down, madam, 
whilst we wait. Give the lady a newspaper. 

RICHARD [ivdignuantly] Shame! 

BURGOYNE [keenly, with a half smile] If you are not her 
husband, sir, the case is not a serious one —for her. 
[Richard bites his lip, silenced |. 

yupitH [to Richard, as she returns to her seat| I couldnt 
help it. [He shakes his head. She sits down]. 

BURGOYNE. You will understand of course, Mr Anderson, 
that you must not build on this little incident. We are 
bound to make an example of somebody. 

RICHARD. I quite understand. I suppose there’s no use 
in my explaining. 

BuRGOYNE. I think we should prefer independent testi- 
mony, if you dont mind. 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 67 


The sergeant, with a packet of papers in his hand, returns 
conducting Christy, who is much seared. 

SERGEANT | giving Burgoyne the packet] Dispatches, sir. 
Delivered by a corporal of the §3rd. Dead beat with hard 
riding, sir. 

Burgoyne opens the dispatches, and presently becomes absorbed 
in them. They are so serious as to take his attention completely 
from the court martial, 

THE SERGEANT [to Cristy] Now then. Attention; and 
take your hat off. [He posts himself in charge of Christy, who 
stands on Burgoyne’s side of the court}. 

RICHARD [im Ais usual bullying tone to Christy] Dont be 
frightened, you fool: youre only wanted as a witness. 
Theyre not going to hang you. 

swinpon. What’s your name? 

curisty. Christy. 

RICHARD [dmpatiently| Christopher Dudgeon, you blatant 
idiot. Give your full name. 

swinDon. Be silent, prisoner. You must not prompt 
the witness. 

RICHARD. Very well. But I warn you youll get nothing 
out of him unless you shake it out of him. He has been 
too well brought up by a pious mother to have any sense 
or manhood left in him. 

BURGOYNE [springing up and speaking to the sergeant in a 
startling voice] Where is the man who brought these? 

SERGEANT. In the guard-room, sir. 

Burgoyne goes out with a haste that sets the officers exchang- 
ing looks. 

swinvon [to Cristy] Do you know Anthony Anderson, 
the Presbyterian minister? 

curisty. Of course I do [implying that Swindon must be 
an ass not to know it}. 

swinDon. Is he here? 

cHRISTY [staring round} I dont know. 

swINDON. Do you see him? 

cHRrisTy. No. 


68 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


swINDON. You seem to know the prisoner? 

cHrisTy. Do you mean Dick? 

swinpon. Which is Dick? 

cHRISTY [ pointing to Richard} Him. 

swinpon. What is his name? 

cHristy. Dick. 

RICHARD. Answer properly, you jumping jackass. What 
do they know about Dick? 

cHRristy. Well, you are Dick, aint you?) What am I 
to say? 

swinpon. Address me, sir; and do you, prisoner, be 
silent. Tell us who the prisoner is. 

cHristy. He’s my brother Dick — Richard — Richard 
Dudgeon. 

swinpon. Your brother! 

CHRISTY... YC5: 

SWINDON. You are sure he is not Anderson. 

cHristy. Who? 

RICHARD [exasperaiedly| Me, me, me, you — 

SWINDON. Silence, sir. 

SERGEANT [shouting] Silence. 

RICHARD [impatiently] Yah! [Zo Céristy] He wants to 
know am I Minister Anderson. Tell him, and stop grin- 
ning like a zany. 

cHRIsTY [grinning more than ever) You Pastor Anderson ! 
[Zo Swindon] Why, Mr Anderson’s a minister—a very 
good man; and Dick’s a bad character: the respectable 
people wont speak to him. He’s the bad brother: I’m the 
good one. [Tze officers laugh outright. The soldiers grin]. 

swinpon. Who arrested this man? 

SERGEANT. I did, sir. I found him in the minister’s 
house, sitting at tea with the lady with his coat off, quite 
at home. If he isnt married to her, he ought to be. 

swinpon. Did he answer to the minister’s name? 

SERGEANT. Yes sir, but not to a minister’s nature. You 
ask the chaplain, sir. 

swinpon [fo Richard, threateningly| So, sir, you have 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 69 


attempted to cheat us. And your name is Richard 
Dudgeon? 

RICHARD. Youve found it out at last, have you? 

swinpon. Dudgeon is a name well known to us, eh? 

RICHARD. Yes: Peter Dudgeon, whom you murdered, 
was my uncle. 

swinpon. Hm! [He compresses his lips, and looks at 
Richard with vindictive gravity], 

cHRisTy. Are they going to hang you, Dick? 

RICHARD. Yes. Get out: theyve done with you. 

cuHristy. And I may keep the china peacocks? 

RICHARD [ jumping up] Get out. Get out, you blither. 
ing baboon, you. [Cristy flies, panicstricken]. 

swinpon [rising —all rise} Since you have taken the 
minister’s place, Richard Dudgeon, you shall go through 
with it. The execution will take place at 12 o’clock as 
arranged; and unless Anderson surrenders before then, 
you shall take his place on the gallows. Sergeant: take 
your man out. 

jupiTH [distracted | No, no— 

swinpon [fiercely, dreading a renewal of her entreaties| 
Take that woman away. 

RICHARD [springing across the table with a tiger-like bound, 
and seizing Swindon by the throat) You infernal scoun- 
dre] — 

The sergeant rushes to the rescue from one side, the soldiers 
From the other. They seize Richard and drag him back to his 
place. Swindon, who has been thrown supine on the table, 
rises, arranging his stock. He is about to speak, when be is 
anticipated by Burgoyne, who has just appeared at the door 
with two papers in his hand: a white letter and a blue dis- 
patch. 

BURGOYNE [advancing to the table, elaborately cool| What 
isthis? Whats happening? MrAnderson: I’m astonished 
at you. 

RICHARD. I am sorry I disturbed you, General. J merely 
wanted to strangle your understrapper there. [Breaking 


70 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


out violently at Swindon] Why do you raise the devil in 
me by bullying the woman like that? You oatmeal faced 
dog, I’d twist your cursed head off with the greatest satis- 
faction. [He puts out his hands to the sergeant] Here: 
handcuff me, will you; or I'll not undertake to keep my 
fingers off him. 

The sergeant takes out a pair of handcuffs and looks to 
Burgoyne for instructions. 

BURGOYNE. Have you addressed profane language to the 
lady, Major Swindon? 

swinpon [very angry] No, sir, certainly not. That 
question should not have been put to me. J ordered the 
woman to be removed, as she was disorderly; and the 
fellow sprang at me. Put away those handcuffs. I am 
perfectly able to take care of myself. 

RICHARD. Now you talk like a man, I have no quarrel 
with you. 

purGoYNE. Mr Anderson — 

swinDon. His name is Dudgeon, sir, Richard Dudgeon. 
He is an impostor. 

BuRGOYNE [brusguely] Nonsense, sir: you hanged Dud- 
geon at Springtown. 

RICHARD. It was my uncle, General. 

BuRGoYNE. Oh, your uncle. [Zo Swindon, handsomely] 
beg your pardon, Major Swindon. [Swindon acknowledges 
the apology stiffly. Burgoyne turns to Richard}, We are some- 
what unfortunate in our relations with your family. Well, 
Mr Dudgeon, what I wanted to ask you is this. Who 
is [reading the name from the letter] William Maindeck 
Parshotter? 

RICHARD. He is the Mayor of Springtown. 

surGoYNE. Is William — Maindeck and so on—a man 
of his word? 

RICHARD. Is he selling you anything? 

BURGOYNE. No. 

RICHARD. Chen you may depend on him. 

BuRGoYNE. ‘Thank you, Mr—’m Dudgeon. By the way, 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 71 


since you are not Mr Anderson, do we still — eh, 
Swindon? [meaning “do we still hang him ?” | 

RICHARD. The arrangements are unaltered, General. 

BuRGOYNE. Ah, indeed. I am sorry. Good morning, Mr 
Dudgeon. Good morning, madam. 

RICHARD [interrupting ‘fudith almost fiercely as she is about 
to make some wild appeal, and taking her arm resolutely| Not 
one word more. Come. 

She looks imploringly at him, but is overborne by his deter- 
mination. They are marched out bythe four soldiers: the sergeant, 
very sulky, walking between Swindon and Richard, whom he 
watches as if he were a dangerous animal, 

BURGOYNE. Gentlemen: we need not detain you. Major 
Swindon: a word with you. [TZ7e officers go out. Burgoyne 
waits with unruffied serenity until the last of them disappears. 
Then he becomes very grave, and addresses Swindon for the first 
time without fis title|. Swindon: do you know what this is 
[stewing him the letter]? 

swinpon. What? 

BurGoYNE. A demand for a safe-conduct for an officer of 
their militia to come here and arrange terms with us. 

swinDoNn. Oh, they are giving in. 

BURGOYNE. They add that they are sending the man who 
raised Springtown last night and drove us out; so that we 
may know that we are dealing with an officer of importance. 

swinpon. Pooh! 

BURGOYNE. He will be fully empowered to arrange the 
terms of — guess what. 

swinpon. Their surrender, I hope. 

BURGOYNE. No: our evacuation of the town. They offer 
us just six hours to clear out. 

swinDoN. What monstrous impudence! 

BURGOYNE. What shall we do, eh? 

swinpon. March on Springtown and strike a decisive 
blow at once. 

BURGOYNE [quietly] Hm! [TZurning to tle door) Come to 
the adjutant’s office. 


72 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


swinDON. What for? 

BURGOYNE. ‘Io write out that safe-conduct. [He puts his 
hand to the door knob to open it). 

swinDon [who has not budged| General Burgoyne. 

BURGOYNE [returning] Sir? 

swinpon, It is my duty to tell you, sir, that I do not 
consider the threats of a mob of rebellious tradesmen a sufii- 
cient reason for our giving way. 

BURGOYNE [/mperturbable| Suppose I resign my command 
to you, what will you do? 

swinpon. I will undertake to do what we have marched 
south from Boston to do, and what General Howe has 
marched north from New York to do: effect a junction at 
Albany and wipe out the rebel] army with our united forces. 

BURGOYNE [ezigmatically} And will you wipe out our 
enemies in London, too? 

swinDon. In London! What enemies? 

BURGOYNE [ forcibly] Jobbery and snobbery, incompet- 
ence and Red Tape. [He 4olds up the dispatch and adds, with 
despair in his face and voice} I have just learnt, sir, that 
General Howe 1s still in New York. 

swINDON [thunderstruck| Good God! He has disobeyed 
orders ! 

BURGOYNE [with sardonic calm| He has received no orders, 
sir. Some gentleman in London forgot to dispatch them: he 
was leaving town for his holiday, I believe. ‘To avoid up- 
setting his arrangements, England will lose her American 
colonies; and in a few days you and I will be at Saratoga 
with 5,000 men to face 16,000 rebels in an impregnable 
position. 

swinDon [appalled | Impossible? 

puRGOYNE [co/d/y] I beg your pardon! 

swinpon. I cant believe it! What will History say? 

BURGOYNE. History, sir, will tell lies, as usual. Come: we 
must send the safe-conduct. [He goes out]. 

swinpon [ following distractedly| My God, my God! We 
shall be wiped out. 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 


As noon approaches there is excitement in the market pl. 
The gallows which hangs there permanently for the terror . 
evildoers, with such minor advertizers and examples of crime as 
the pillory, the whipping post, and the stocks, has a new rope 
attached, with the noose hitched up to one of the uprights, out of 
reach of the boys. Its ladder, too, has been brought out and 
placed in position by the town beadle, who stands by to guard it 
from unauthorized climbing. The W ebsterbridge townsfolk are 
present in force, and in high spirits; for the news has spread 
that it is the devil's disciple and not the minister that the Con- 
tinentals (so they call Burgoyne’s forces| are about to hang: conse- 
quently the execution can be enjoyed without any misgiving as to 
its righteousness, or to the cowardice of allowing it to take place 
without a struggle. There is even some fear of a disappointment 
as midday approaches and the arrival of the beadle with the 
ladder remains the only sign of preparation. But at /ast re- 
assuring shouts of Here they come: Here they are, are beara; 
and a company of soldiers with fixed bayonets, half British 
infantry, half Hessians, tramp quickly into the middle of the 
market place, driving the crowd to the sides. 

THE SERGEANT. Halt. Front. Dress. [Ze soldiers change 
their column into a square enclosing the gallows, their petty 
officers, energetically led by the sergeant, hustling the persons 
who find themselves inside the square out at the corners}. Now 
then! Out of it with you: out of it. Some o youll get 
strung up yourselves presently. Form that square there, 
will you, you damned Hoosians. No use talkin German 
to them: talk to their toes with the butt ends of your 
muskets: theyll understand that. Get out of it, will you. 
[He comes upon ‘fudith, standing near the gallows). Now 
then: youve no call here. 

jupirH. May I not stay? What harm am I doing? 

SERGEANT. | want none of your argufying. You ought 
to be ashamed of yourself, running to see a man hanged 
thats not your husband. And he’s no better than 
yourself. I told my major he was a gentleman; and 
then he goes and tries to strangle him, and calls his 


Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 
Majesty a lunatic. So out of it with you, double 


itH. Will you take these two silver dollars and let 
ay? 
We sergeant, without an instant’s hesitation, looks quickly 
furtively round as he shoots the money dexterously into Fis 
het. Then he raises his voice in virtuous indignation, 

THE SERGEANT. Me take money in the execution of my 
duty! Certainly not. Now I'll tell you what I'll do, to 
teach you to corrupt the King’s officer. [’ll put you under 
arrest until the execution’s over. You just stand there; 
and dont let me see you as much as move from that spot 
until youre let. [With a swift wink at ler he points to the 
corner of the square behind the gallows on his right, and turns 
noisily away, shouting] Now then, dress up and keep em 
back, will you. 

Cries of Hush and Silence are heard among the townsfolk; 
and the sound of a military band, playing the Dead March from 
Saul, is heard. The crowd becomes quiet at once; and the 
sergeant and petty officers, hurrying to the back of the square, 
with a few whispered orders and some stealthy hustling cause it 
to open and admit the funeral procession, which ts protected from 
the crowd by a double file of soldiers. First come Burgoyne ana 
Swindon, who, on entering the square, glance with distaste at 
the gallows, and avoid passing under it by wheeling a little to 
the right and stationing themselves on that side. Then Mr 
Brudenell, the chaplain, in bis surplice, with his prayer book 
open in his hand, walking beside Richard, who is moody and dis- 
orderly. He walks doggedly through the gallows framework, 
and posts himself a little in front of it. Behind him comes the 
executioner, a stalwart soldier in his shirtsleeves. Following 
him, two soldiers haul a light military waggon. Finally comes 
the band, which posts itself at the back of the square, and finishes 
the Dead March. ‘fudith, watching Richard painfully, steals 
down to the gallows, and stands leaning against its right post. 
During the conversation which follows, the two soldiers place the 
cart under the gallows, and stand by the shafts, which point back- 


Act Il The Devil’s Disciple 7s 


wards. The executioner takes a set of steps from the cart and 
places it ready for the prisoner to mount. Then he climbs the 
tall ladder which stands against the gallows, and cuts the string 
by which the rope is hitched up; so that the noose drops dangling 
over the cart, into which he steps as he descends. 

RICHARD [with suppressed impatience, to Brudenell| Look 
here, sir: this is no place for a man of your profession. 
Hadnt you better go away? 

swinDon. I appeal to you, prisoner, if you have any sense 
of decency left, to listen to the ministrations of the chap- 
lain, and pay due heed to the solemnity of the occasion. 

THE CHAPLAIN [gently reproving Richard| Try to control 
yourself, and submit to the divine will. [He “fts bis book 
to proceed with the service}. 

RICHARD. Answer for your own will, sir, and those of 
your accomplices here [zxdicating Burgoyne and Swindon]: 
I see little divinity about them or you. You talk to me of 
Christianity when you are in the act of hanging your 
enemies. Was there ever such blasphemous nonsense! 
[Zo Swindon, more rudely| Youve got up the solemnity of 
the occasion, as you call it, to impress the people with 
your own dignity — Handel’s music and a clergyman to 
make murder look like piety! Do you suppose J am going 
to help you? Youve asked me to choose the rope because 
you dont know your own trade well enough to shoot me 
properly. Well, hang away and have done with it. 

SWINDON [fo the chaplain] Can you do nothing with him, 
Mr Brudenell? 

CHAPLAIN. I will try, sir. [Beginning to read| Man that 
is born of woman hath — 

RICHARD [ fixing his eyes on him] “Thou shalt not kill.” 

The book drops in Brudenell’s hands. 

CHAPLAIN [confessing his embarrassment] What am I to 
say, Mr Dudgeon? 

RICHARD. Let me alone, man, cant you? 

BURGOYNE [with extreme urbanity| 1 think, Mr Brudenell, 
that as the usual professional observations seem to strike 


76 Three Plays for Puritans Act III 


Mr Dudgeon as incongruous under the circumstances, you 
had better omit them until] — er — until Mr Dudgeon can 
no longer be inconvenienced by them. [Bradenell, with a 
shrug, shuts his book and retires behind the gallows], You 
seem in a hurry, Mr Dudgeon. 

RICHARD [with the horror of death upon him| Do you think 
this is a pleasant sort of thing to be kept waiting for? 
Youve made up your mind to commit murder: well, do 
it and have done with it. 

BuRGOYNE. Mr Dudgeon: we are only doing this — 

RICHARD. Because youre paid to do it. 

swinpon. You insolent —[/e swallows his rage}. 

BURGOYNE [with much charm of manner) Ah, I am really 
sorry that you should think that, Mr Dudgeon. If you 
knew what my commission cost me, and what my pay 1s, 
you would think better of me. I should be glad to part 
from you on friendly terms. 

RICHARD. Hark ye, General Burgoyne. If you think 
that I like being hanged, youre mistaken. I dont like it; 
and I dont mean to pretend that I do. And if you think 
I’m obliged to you for hanging me in a gentlemanly way, 
youre wrong there too. I take the whole business in 
devilish bad part; and the only satisfaction I have in it 
is that youll fee] a good deal meaner than I’ll look when 
its over. [He turns away, and is striding to the cart when 
Fudith advances and interposes with her arms stretched out to 
him. Richard, feeling that a very little will upset bis self~ 
possession, shrinks from ther, erying| What are you doing 
here? This is no place for you. [She makes a gesture as if 
to touch him. He recoils impatiently) No: go away, go away: 
youll unnerve me. Take her away, will you. 

jupirH. Wont you bid me good-bye? 

RICHARD [allowing fer to take is hand| Oh good-bye, 
good-bye. Now go—go—dquickly. [S/e chngs to his 
hand — will not be put off with so cold a last farewell — at 
last, as he tries to disengage himself, throws herself on bis 
breast in agony). 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple a7 


swinpon [angrily to the sergeant, who, alarmed at fudith’s 
movement, has come from the back of the square to pull ter 
back, and stopped irresolutely on finding that he is too late] 
How is this? Why is she inside the lines? 

SERGEANT [gwi/ti/y] I dunno, sir. She’s that artful — 
cant keep her away. 

BURGOYNE. You were bribed. 

SERGEANT [ protesting] No, sir — 

swinpon [severe/y] Fall back. [He obeys]. 

RICHARD [imploringly to those around tim, and finally to 
Burgoyne, as the least stolid of them| Take her away. Do 
you think I want a woman near me now? 

BURGOYNE [going to Fudith and taking her hand] Here, 
madam: you had better keep inside the lines ; but stand 
here behind us; and dont look. 

Richard, with a great sobbing sigh of relief as she releases im 
and turns to Burgoyne, flies for refuge to the cart and mounts 
into it. The executicner takes off his coat and pinions him. 

jupiTH [resisting Burgoyne quietly and drawing ter hand 
away| No: I must stay. I wont look. [She goes to the 
right of the gallows. Ste tries to lock at Richard, but turns 
away with a frightful shudder, and falls on Fer knees in prayer. 
Brudenell comes towards ker from the back of the square}. 

BURGOYNE [wodding approvingly as she kneels| Ah, quite so. 
Do not disturb her, Mr-Brudenell: that will do very 
nicely. [Bradenell nods also, and withdraws a little, watching 
her sympathetically. Burgoyne resumes his former position, and 
takes out a handsome gold chrcnometer|. Now then, are those 
preparations made? We must not detain Mr Dudgeon. 

By this time Richard’s hands are bound behind him; ana 
the noose is round his neck. The two soldiers take the shaft of 
the waggon, ready to pull it away. Tie executioner, standing 
in the cart behind Richard, makes a sign io the sergeant. 

SERGEANT [to Burgoyne] Ready, sir. 

BURGOYNE. Have you anything more to say, Mr Dud- 
geon? It wants two minutes of twelve still. 

RICHARD [in te strong voice of a man who has conquered 


78 Three Plays for Puritans — Act II 


the bitterness of death} Your watch is two minutes slow by 
the town clock, which I can see from here, General. 
[Zhe town clock strikes the first stroke of twelve. Involuntarily 
the people flinch at the sound, and a subdued groan breaks from 
them]. Amen! my life for the world’s future ! 

ANDERSON [shouting as fe rushes into the market place] 
Amen ; and stop the execution. [He bursts through the line 
of soldiers opposite Burgoyne, and rushes, panting, to the gallows]. 
Iam Anthony Anderson, the man you want. 

Lhe crowd, intensely excited, listens with all its ears. 
Judith, half rising, stares at him; then lifts ler hands like one 
whose dearest prayer has been granted. 

swINDON. Indeed. Then you are just in time to take your 
place on the gallows. Arrest him. 

At a sign from the sergeant, two soldiers come forward to 
seize Anderson. 

ANDERSON [thrusting a paper under Swindon’s nose] There’s 
my safe-conduct, sir. 

SWINDON [taken aback] Safe-conduct! Are you—! 

ANDERSON [emphatically] I am. [The two soldiers take 
him by the elbows). ‘Tell these men to take their hands 
off me. 

SWINDON [to the men] Let him go. 

SERGEANT. Fall back. 

The too men return to their places. The townsfolk raise a 
cheer; and begin to exchange exultant looks, with a presentiment 
of triumph as they see their Pastor speaking with their enemies in 
the gate. 

ANDERSON [exhaling a deep breath of relief, and dabbing his 
perspiring brow with his handkerchief | ‘Thank God, I was in 
time | 

BURGOYNE [calm as ever, and still watch in hand| Ample 
time, sir. Plenty of time. I should never dream of hanging 
any gentleman by an American clock. [He puts up /is watch}. 

ANDERSON. Yes: we are some minutes ahead of you al- 
ready, General. Now tell them to take the rope from the 
neck of that American citizen. 


Act II The Devil’s Disciple 79 


BURGOYNE [to the executioner in the cart — very politely] 
Kindly undo Mr Dudgeon. 

The executioner takes the rope from Richard’s neck, unties 
his hands, and helps him on with his coat. 

juDiITH [stealing timidly to Anderson| ‘Tony. 

ANDERSON [ putting /is arm round ter shoulders and banter- 
ing Ler affectionately| Well, what do you think of your hus- 
band now, eh? — eh??—eh??? 

jupiTH. I am ashamed — [she fides fer face against his 
breast). 

BURGOYNE [fo Swindon] You look disappointed, Major 
Swindon. 

swinpon. You look defeated, General Burgoyne. 

BURGOYNE. lam, sir; and 1am humane enough to be glad 
of it. [Richard jumps down from the cart, Brudenell offering 
his hand to help him, and runs to Anderson, whose left hand he 
shakes heartily, the right being occupied by Fudith|. By the 
way, Mr Anderson, I do not quite understand. The safe- 
conduct was for a commander of the militia. I understand 
you are a—T[ He looks as pointedly as his good manners permit 
at the riding boots, the pistols, and Richard’s coat, and adds|— 
a clergyman. 

ANDERSON [letween Fudith and Richard Sir: it is in the 
hour of trial that a man finds his true profession. ‘This foolish 
young man [ placing his hand on Richard’s shoulder] boasted 
himself the Devil’s Disciple; but when the hour of trial 
came to him, he found that it was his destiny to suffer and 
be faithful to the death. I thought myself a decent minister 
of the gospel of peace; but when the hour of trial came to 
me, I found that it was my destiny to be a man of action, 
and that my place was amid the thunder of the captains and 
the shouting. So I am starting life at fifty as Captain An- 
thony Anderson of the Springtown militia; and the Devil’s 
Disciple here will start presently as the Reverend Richard 
Dudgeon, and wag his pow in my old pulpit, and give good 
advice to this silly sentimental little wife of mine [ putting 
his other hand on her shoulder. She steals a glance at Richard 


8o Three Plays for Puritans Act If 


to see how the prospect pleases tim]. Your mother told me, 
Richard, that I should never have chosen Judith if I’d been 
born for the ministry. I am afraid she was right; so, by your 
leave, you may keep my coat and [’ll keep yours. 

RICHARD. Minister —I should say Captain. I have be- 
haved like a fool. 

jupitH. Like a hero. 

RICHARD. Much the same thing, perhaps. [With some 
bitterness towards himself | But no: if I had been any good, 
T should have done for you what you did for me, instead of 
making a vain sacrifice. 

ANDERSON. Not vain, my boy. It takes all sorts to make 
a world—saints as well as soldiers. [Zurning to Burgoyne] 
And now, General, time presses ; and America is in a hurry. 
Have you realized that though you may occupy towns and 
win battles, you cannot conquer a nation? 

BURGOYNE. My good sir, without a Conquest you cannot 
have an aristocracy. Come and settle the matter at my 
quarters. 

ANDERSON. At your service, sir. [Zo Richard] See Judith 
home for me, will you, my boy. [He hands her over to tim), 
Now, General. [He goes busily up the market place towards 
the Town Hall, leaving Judith and Richard together. Burgoyne 
follows him a step or twos then checks himself and turns to 
Richard]. 

BURGOYNE. Oh, by the way, Mr Dudgeon, I shall be glad 
to see you at lunch at half-past one. [He pauses a moment, 
and adds, with politely veiled slyness| Bring Mrs Anderson, if 
she will be so good. [Zo Swindon, who is fuming| Take it 
quietly, Major Swindon: your friend the British soldier can 
stand up to anything except the British War Office. [He 
follows Anderson). 

SERGEANT [fo Scvéndon| What orders, sir? 

SWINDON [savagely] Orders! What use are orders now? 
There’s no army. Back to quarters; and be d — [He turns 
on his heel and goes}. 

SERGEANT [ piguacious and patriotic, repudiating the idea of 


Act III The Devil’s Disciple 8 | 


defeat] *Tention. Now then: cock up your chins, and shew 
em you dont care a damn for em. Slope arms! Fours! 
Wheel! Quick march! 

The drum marks time with a tremendous bang; the band 
strikes up British Grenadiers; and the Sergeant, Brudenell, 
and the English troops march off defiantly to their quarters. The 
townsfolk press in behind, and follow them up the market, jeering 
at them, and the town band, a very primitive affair, brings up 
the rear, playing Yankee Doodle. Essie, who comes in with them, 
runs to Richard. 

Essig. Oh, Dick ! 

RICHARD [ good-humoredly, but wilfully] Now, now: come, 
come! I dont mind being hanged; but I will not be cried 
over, 

Essie. No, I promise. I’ll be good. [S4e tries to restrain 
ler tears, but cannot}. I— I want to see where the soldiers 
are going to. [She goes a little way up the market, pretending 
to look after the crowd |. 

jup1ITH. Promise me you will never tell him. 

RICHARD. Dont be afraid. 

They shake hands on it. 

ESSIE [calling to them| Theyre coming back. They want 

ou. 
: Jubilation in the market. The townsfolk surge back again 
in wild enthusiasm with their band, and hoist Richard on their 
shoulders, cheering him. 


NOTES TO: FHE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE 


Burgoyne. 


General John Burgoyne, whois presented in this play for 
the first time (as far as I am aware) on the English stage, 1s 
not a conventional stage soldier, but as faithful a portrait 
as itis in the nature of stage portraits to be. His objection 
to profane swearing 1s not borrowed from Mr Gilbert’s 
H.M.S. Pinafore: it 1s taken from the Code of Instructions 
drawn up by himself for his officers when he introduced 
Light Horse into the English army. His opinion that 
English soldiers should be treated as thinking beings was no 
doubt as unwelcome to the military authorities of his time, 
when nothing was thought of ordering a soldier a thousand 
lashes, as it will be to those modern victims of the flagel- 
lation neurosis who are so anxious to revive that discredited 
sport. His military reports are very clever as criticisms, and 
are humane and enlightened within certain aristocratic 
limits, best illustrated perhaps by his declaration, which 
now sounds so curious, that he should blush to ask for pro- 
motion on any other ground than that of family influence. 
As a parliamentary candidate, Burgoyne took our common 
expression “fighting an election” so very literally that he 
led his supporters to the poll at Preston in 1768 with a 
loaded pistol in each hand, and won the seat, though he 
was fined £1000, and denounced by Junius, for the pistols. 

It is only within quite recent years that any general 
recognition has become possible for the feeling that led 
Burgoyne, a professed enemy of oppression in India and 


Notes 8 3 


elsewhere, to accept his American command when so many 
other officers threw up their commissions rather than serve 
in a civil war against the Colonies. His biographer De 
Fonblanque, writing in 1876, evidently regarded his posi- 
tion as indefensible. Nowadays, it is sufficient to say that 
Burgoyne was an Imperialist. He sympathized with the 
colonists; but when they proposed as a remedy the disrup- 
tion of the Empire, he regarded that as a step backward 
in civilization. As he put it to the House of Commons, 
‘‘while we remember that we are contending against 
brothers and fellow subjects, we must also remember 
that we are contending in this crisis for the fate of 
the British Empire.” Eightyfour years after his defeat, his 
republican conquerors themselves engaged in a civil war 
for the integrity of their Union. In 1885 the Whigs who 
represented the anti-Burgoyne tradition of American Inde- 
pendence in English politics, abandoned Gladstone and 
made common cause with their political opponents in de- 
fence of the Union between England and Ireland. Only 
the other day England sent 200,000 men into the field south 
of the equator to fight out the question whether South Africa 
should develop as a Federation of British Colonies or as an 
independent Afrikander United States. In all these cases 
the Unionists who were detached from their parties were 
called renegades, as Burgoyne was. That, of course, 1s only 
one of the unfortunate consequences of the fact that man- 
kind, being for the most part incapable of politics, accepts 
vituperation as an easy and congenial substitute. Whether 
Burgoyne or Washington, Lincoln or Davis, Gladstone or 
Bright, Mr Chamberlain or Mr Leonard Courtney was in 
the right will never be settled, because it will never be 
possible to prove that the government of the victor has been 
better for mankind than the government of the vanquished 
would have been. It is true that the victors have no doubt 
on the point; but to the dramatist, that certainty of theirs 
is only part of the human comedy. The American Unionist 
is often a Separatist as to Ireland; the English Unionist 


84 The Devil’s Disciple 


often sympathizes with the Polish Home Ruler; and both 
English and American Unionists are apt to be Disruption- 
ists as regards that Impcrial Ancient of Days, the Empire of 
China. Both are Unionists concerning Canada, but with a 
difference as to the precise application to it of the Monroe 
doctrine. As for me, the dramatist, I smile, and lead the 
conversation back to Burgoyne. 

Burgoyne’s surrender at Saratoga made him that occa- 
sionally necessary part of our British system, a scapegoat. 
The explanation of his defeat given in the play (p. 72) is 
founded on a passage quoted by De Fonblanque from Fitz- 
maurice’s Life of Lord Shelburne, as follows: ‘‘ Lord George 
Germain, having among other peculiarities a particular dis- 
like to be put out of his way on any occasion, had arranged 
to call at his office on his way to the country to sign the 
dispatches; but as those addressed to Howe had not been 
fair-copied, and he was not disposed to be balked of his 
projected visit to Kent, they were not signed then and were 
forgotten on his return home.” These were the dispatches 
instructing Sir William Howe, who was in New York, to 
effect a junction at Albany with Burgoyne, who had marched 
from Boston for that purpose. Burgoyne got as far as Sara- 
toga, where, failing the expected reinforcement, he was 
hopelessly outnumbered, and his officers picked off, Boer 
fashion, by the American farmer-sharpshooters. His own 
collar was pierced by a bullet. The publicity of his defeat, 
however, was more than compensated at home by the fact 
that Lord George’s trip to Kent had not been interfered 
with, and that nobody knew about the oversight of the dis- 
patch. The policy of the English Government and Court 
for the next two years was simply concealment of Germain’s 
neglect. Burgoyne’s demand for an inquiry was defeated in 
the House of Commons by the court party; and when he 
at last obtained a committee, the king got rid of it by a pro- 
rogation. When Burgoyne realized what had happened about 
the instructions to Howe (the scene in which I have repre- 
sented him as learning it before Saratoga is not historical: 


Notes 8 5 


the truth did not dawn on him until many months after- 
wards) the king actually took advantage of his being a 
prisoner of war in England on parole, and ordered him to 
return to America into captivity. Burgoyne immediately 
resigned all his appointments; and this practically closed 
his military career, though he was afterwards made Com- 
mander of the Forces in Ireland for the purpose of banish- 
ing him from parliament. 

The episode illustrates the curious perversion of the 
English sense of honor when the privileges and prestige of 
the aristocracy are at stake. Mr Frank Harris said, after 
the disastrous battle of Modder River, that the English, 
having lost America a century ago because they preferred 
George IIJ, were quite prepared to lose South Africa to-day 
because they preferred aristocratic commanders to success- 
ful ones. Horace Walpole, when the parliamentary recess 
came at a critical period of the War of Independence, said 
that the Lords could not be expected to lose their pheasant 
shooting forthe sake of America. -Intheworking class, which, 
like all classes, has its own official aristocracy, there is the 
same reluctance to discredit an institution or to “do a man 
out of his job.” At bottom, of course, this apparently shame- 
less sacrifice of great public interests to petty personal ones, 
is simply the preference of the ordinary man for the things 
he can feel and understand to the things that are beyond 
his capacity. It is stupidity, not dishonesty. —, 

Burgoyne fell a victim to this stupidity in two ways. 
Not only was he thrown over, in spite of his high character 
and distinguished services, to screen a court favorite who 
had actually been cashiered for cowardice and misconduct 
in the field fifteen years before; but his peculiar critical 
temperament and talent, artistic, satirical, rather histrionic, 
and his fastidious delicacy of sentiment, his fine spirit and 
humanity, were just the qualities to make him disliked by 
stupid people because of their dread of ironic criticism, Long 
after his death, Thackeray, who had an intense sense of 
human character, but was typically stupid in valuing and 


86 The Devil’s Disciple 


interpreting it, instinctively snecred at him and exulted in 
his defeat. That sneer represents the common English atti- 
tude towards the Burgoyne type. Every instance in whichthe 
critical genius is defeated, and the stupid genius (for both 
temperaments have their genius) ‘“‘muddles through all 
right,” is popular in England. But Burgoyne’s failure was 
not the work of his own temperament, but of the stupid 
temperament. What man could do under the circumstances 
he did, and did handsomely and loftily.\He fell, and his 
ideal empire was dismembered, not through his own mis- 
conduct, but because Sir George Germain overestimated the 
importance of his Kentish holiday, and underestimated the 
difhculty of conquering those remote and inferior creatures, 
the colonists. And King George and the rest of the nation 
agreed, on the whole, with Germain. It is a significant point 
that in America, where Burgoyne was an enemy and an in- 
vader, he was admired and praised. The climate there is no 
doubt more favorable to intellectual vivacity. - 

I have described Burgoyne’s temperament as rather his- 
trionic; and the reader will have observed that the Bur- 
goyne of the Devil’s Disciple is a man who plays his part 
in life, and makes all its points, in the manner of a born 
high comedian.y¥f he had been killed at Saratoga, with all 
his comedies unwritten, and his plan for turning As You 
Like It into a Beggar’s Opera unconceived, I should still 
have painted the same picture of him on the strength of 
his reply to the articles of capitulation proposed to him by 
his American conqueror General Gates, Here they are: 


PROPOSITION. ANSWER. 
1. General Burgoyne’s army be- Lieut-General Burgoyne’s army, 
ing reduced by repeated defeats, by however reduced, will never admit 
desertion, sickness, etc., their pro- that their retreat is cut off while 


visions exhausted, their military they have arms in their hands, 
horses, tents and baggage taken or 

destroyed, their retreat cut off, and 

their camp invested, they can only 

be allowed to surrender as prisoners 

of war. 


Notes 


2. The officers and soldiers may 
keep the baggage belonging to them. 
The Generals of the United States 
never permit individuals to be pil- 
laged. 

3. The troops under his Excel- 
lency General Burgoyne will be con- 
ducted bythe most convenient route 
to New England, marching by easy 
marches, and sufficiently provided 
for by the way. 

4. The officers will be admitted 
on parole and will be treated with 
the liberality customary in such 
cases, so long as they, by proper be- 
haviour, continue to deserve it; but 
those who are apprehended having 
broke their parole, as some British 
officers have done, must expect to 
be close confined. 

5. All public stores, artillery, 
arms, ammunition, carriages, horses, 
etc., etc., must be delivered to com- 
missaries appointed to receive them. 

6. These terms being agreed to 
and signed, the troops under his 
Excellency’s, General Burgoyne’s 
command, may be drawn up in 
their encampments, where they will 
be ordered to ground their arms, and 
may thereupon be marched to the 
river-side on their way to Benning- 
ton, 


Noted. 


greed, 


There being no officer in this 
army under, or capable of being 
under, the description of breaking 
parole, this article needs no answer. 


All public stores may bé deliv- 
ered, arms excepted, 


This article is inadmissible in 
any extremity. Sooner than this 
army will consent to ground their 
arms in their encampments, they 
will rush on the enemy determined 
to take no quarter. 


And, later on, “If General Gates does not mean to re- 
cede from the 6th article, the treaty ends at once: the army 
will to a man proceed to any act of desperation sooner than 


submit to that article.” 


Here you have the man at his Burgoynest. Need I add 
that he had his own way; and that when the actual cere- 
mony of surrender came, he would have played poor General 
Gates off the stage, had not that commander risen to the 
occasion by handing him back his sword. “>> 

In connection with the reference to Indians with scalp- 


88 The Devil’s Disciple 


ing knives, who, with the troops hired from Germany, made 
up about half Burgoyne’s force, I may mention that Bur- 
goyne offered two of them a reward to guide a Miss McCrea, 
betrothed to one of the English officers, into the English lines. 
The two braves quarrelled about the reward; and the more 
sensitive of them, as a protest against the unfairness of the 
other, tomahawked the young lady. The usual retaliations 
were proposed under the popular titles of justice and so 
forth; but as the tribe of the slayer would certainly have 
followed suit by a massacre of whites on the Canadian fron- 
tier, Burgoyne was compelled to forgive the crime, to the 
intense disgust of indignant Christendom. 


Brudenell. 


Brudenell is also a real person. At least, an artillery 
chaplain of that name distinguished himself at Saratoga by 
reading the burial service over Major Fraser under fire, and 
by a quite readable adventure, chronicled by Burgoyne, with 
Lady Harriet Ackland. Lady Harriet’s husband achieved 
the remarkable feat of killing himself, instead of his 
adversary, in a duel. He overbalanced himself in the heat 
of his swordsmanship, and fell with his head against a 
pebble. Lady Harriet then married the warrior chaplain, 
who, like Anthony Anderson in the play, seems to have 
mistaken his natural profession. 


The rest of the Devil’s Disciple may have actually 
occurred, like most stories invented by dramatists; but I 
cannot produce any documents. Major Swindon’s name 
is invented; but the man, of course, is real. There are 
dozens of him extant to this day. 


CHSAR AND CLEOPATRA 
Ix 


1898 





Walker 6 Cockercll ph 


Cf 2 (y, 
ulltts VQLOBAS- 


Coe _ > f “72 : 
Trem us “usb CHiCILE ere ot Derlin. 


CASAR AND CLEOPATRA 


ACT I 


An October night on the Syrian border of Egypt towards 
the end of the XX XIII Dynasty, in the year 706 by Roman 
computation, afterwards reckoned by Christian computation as 
48 B.c. 4 great radiance of silver fire, the dawn of a moonlit 
night, is rising in the east. The stars and the cloudless sky are 
our otun contemporaries, nineteen and a half centuries younger 
than we know thems; but you would not guess that from their 
appearance. Below them are two notable drawbacks of civiliza- 
tion: a palace, and soldiers. The palace, an old, low, Syrian 
building of whitened mud, is not so ugly as Buckingham Palace ; 
and the officers in the courtyard are more highly civilized than 
modern English officers: for example, they do not dig up the 
corpses of their dead enemies and mutilate them, as we dug up 
Cromwell and the Mahdi. They are in two groups: one intent 
on the gambling of their captain Belzanor, a warrior of fifty, 
who, with his spear on the ground beside his knee, is stooping to 
throw dice with a sly-looking young Persian recruit; the other 
gathered about a guardsman who has just finished telling a 
naughty story (still current in English barracks) at which they 
are laughing uproariously. They are about a dozen in number, 
all highly aristocratic young Egyptian guardsmen, handsomely 
equipped with weapons and armor, very unEnglish in point of 
not being ashamed of and uncomfortable in their professional 

| 


| 
| 


g2 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


dress; on the contrary, rather ostentatiously and arrogantly 
evarlike, as valuing themselves on their military caste. 

Belzanor is a typical veteran, tough and wilful; prompt, 
capible and crafty where brute force will serve; helpless and 
boyish when it will not: an effective sergeant, an incompetent 
general, a deplorable dictator. Would, if influentially connected, 
be employed ix the two last capacities by a modern European 
State on the strength of his success in the first. Is rather to be 
pitied just now in view of the fact that ‘fulius Caesar is invaa- 
ing his country. Not knowing this, is intent on his game with 
the Persian, whom, as a foreigner, he considers quite capable 
of cheating him. 

His subalterns are mostly handsome young fellows whose 
interest in the game and the story symbolize with tolerable com- 
pleteness the main interests in life of which they are conscious. 
Their spears are leaning against the walls, or lying on the ground 
ready to their hands. The corner of the courtyard forms a tri- 
angle of which one side is the front of the palace, with a doorway, 
the other a wall with a gateway. The storytellers are on the 
palace side: the gamblers, on the gateway side. Close to the 
gateway, against the wall, is a stone block high enough to enable 
a Nubian sentinel, standing on it, to look over the wall, The 
yard is lighted by a torch stuck in the wall. As the laughter 
rom the group round the storyteller dies away, the kneeling 
Persian, winning the throw, snatches up the stake from the 
ground. 


BELZANOR. By Apis, Persian, thy gods are good to thee. 

THE PERSIAN. Try yet again, O captain. Double or 
quits | 

BELZANOR. No more. I am not in the vein. 

THE SENTINEL [ poising fis javelin as he peers over the wall] 
Stand. Who goes there? 

They all start, listening. A strange voice replies from with- 
out. 

voice. The bearer of evil tidings. 

BELZANOR [calling to the sentry| Pass him. 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 93 


THE SENTINEL [grouuding his javelin) Draw near, O bearer 
of evil tidings. 

BELZANOR | pocketing the dice and picking up his spear| Let 
us receive this man with honor. He bears evil tidings. 

The guardsmen seize their spears and gather about the gate, 
leaving a way through for tlhe new comer. 

PERSIAN [rising from his knee| Are evil tidings, then, so 
honorable ? 

BELZANOR. O barbarous Persian, hear my instruction. 
In gypt the bearer of good tidings 1s sacrificed to the gods 
as a thank offering; but no god will accept the blood of the 
messenger of evil. When we have good tidings, we are 
careful to send them in the mouth of the cheapest slave 
we can find. Evil tidings are borne by young noblemen 
who desire to bring themselves into notice. [Z7ey join the 
rest at the gate.| 

THE SENTINEL. Pass, O young captain ; and bow the head 
in the House of the Queen. 

voice. Go anoint thy javelin with fat of swine, O 
Blackamoor ; for before morning the Romans will make thee 
eat it to the very butt. 

Lhe owner of the voice, a fairhaired dandy, dressed in a 
different fashion from that affected by the guardsmen, but no less 
extravagantly, comes through the gateway laughing. He is 
somewhat battlestained ; and his left forearm, bandaged, comes 
through a torn sleeve. In tis right hund he carries a Roman 
sword in its sheath. He swaggers down the courtyard, the Per- 
sian on bis right, Belzanor on his left, and the guardsmen 
crowding down behind him. 

BELZANOR. Who art thou that laughest in the House of 
Cleopatra the Queen, and in the teeth of Belzanor, the 
captain of her guard? 

THE NEW COMER. I am Bel Affris, descended from the 
gods. 

BELZANOR [ceremonious/y| Hail, cousin ! 

ALL [except the Persian] Hail, cousin ! 

PERSIAN. All the Oucen’s guards are descended from the 


94. Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


gods, O stranger, save myself. I am Persian, and descended 
from many kings. 

BEL AFFRIS [fo the guardsmen] Hail, cousins! [Zo the 
Persian, condescendingly| Hail, mortal! 

BELZANOR. You have been in battle, Bel Affris ; and you 
are a soldier among soldiers. You will not let the Queen’s 
women have the first of your tidings. 

BEL AFFRIS. J have no tidings, except that we shall have 
our throats cut presently, women, soldiers, and all. 

PERSIAN [fo Be/zanor| J told you so. 

THE SENTINEL [cuho has been listening| Woe, alas! 

BEL AFFRIS [calling to -im] Peace, peace, poor Ethiop: 
destiny 1s with the gods who painted thee black. [7 Be/- 
zanor| What has this mortal [indicating the Persian] told 
you? 

BELZANOR. He says that the Roman Julius Cesar, who 
has landed on our shores with a handful of followers, will 
make himself master of Egypt. He ts afraid of the Roman 
soldiers. [Z#e guardsmen laugh with boisterous scorn}. Peas- 
ants, brought up to scare crows and follow the plough! Sons 
of smiths and millers and tanners! And we nobles, conse- 
crated to arms, descended from the gods! 

PERSIAN. Belzanor: the gods are not always good to 
their poor relations. 

BELZANOR [4otly, to the Persian} Man to man, are we 
worse than the slaves of Cesar? 

BEL AFFRIS [stepping between tlem| Listen, cousin. Man 
to man, we Egyptians are as gods above the Romans. 

THE GUARDSMEN [exu/tantly] Aha! 

BEL AFFRIS. But this Casar does not pit man against 
man: he throws a legion at you where you are weakest as 
he throws a stone from a catapult; and that legion is as a 
man with one head, a thousand arms, and no religion. I 
have fought against them; and I know. 

BELZANOR [derisively] Were you frightened, cousin? 

The guardsmen roar with laughter, their eyes sparkling at 
the wit of their captain. 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra Q5 


BEL AFFRIS. No, cousin; but I was beaten. They were 
frightened (perhaps); but they scattered us like chaff. 

The guardsmen, much damped, utter a growl of contempt- 
uous disgust. 

BELZANOR. Could you not die? 

BEL AFFRIS. No: that was too easy to be worthy of a 
descendant of the gods. Besides, there was no time: all 
was over in a moment. The attack came just where we 
least expected it. 

BELZANOR. ‘hat shews that the Romans are cowards. 

BEL AFFRIS. ‘Chey care nothing about cowardice, these 
Romans: they fight to win. The pride and honor of war 
are nothing to them. 

PERSIAN. ‘l'ell us the tale of the battle. What befell? 

THE GUARDSMEN [gathering eagerly round Bel Affris|} Ay: 
the tale of the battle. 

BEL AFFRIS. Know then, that I am a novice in the guard 
of the temple of Ra in Memphis, serving neither Cleopatra 
nor her brother Ptolemy, but only the high gods. We 
Went a journey to inquire of Ptolemy why he had driven 
Cleopatra into Syria, and how we of Egypt should deal 
with the Roman Pompey, newly come to our shores after 
his defeat by Ceasar at Pharsalia. What, think ye, did we 
learn? Even that Cesar is coming also in hot pursuit of 
his foc, and that Ptolemy has slain Pompey, whose severed 
head he holds in readiness to present to the conqueror. 
[Sensation among the guardsmen}. Nay, more: we found 
that Cesar is already come; for we had not made half a 
day’s journey on our way back when we came upon a city 
rabble flying from his legions, whose landing they had gone 
out to withstand. 

BELZANOR. And ye, the temple guard! did ye not with- 
stand these legions? 

BEL AFFRIS. What man could, that we did. But there 
came the sound of a trumpet whose voice was as the curs- 
ing of a black mountain. Then saw we a moving wall of 
shields coming towards us. You know how the heart burns 


96 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


when you charge a fortified wall; but how if the fortified 
wall were to charge you? 

THE PERSIAN [cxulting in having told them so} Did I not 
say it? 

BEL AFFRIs. When the wall came nigh, it changed into 
a line of men—common fellows enough, with helmets, 
leather tunics, and breastplates. Every man of them flung 
his javelin: the one that came my way drove through my 
shield as through a papyrus—lo there! [4e points to the 
bandage on his left arm| and would have gone through my 
neck had I not stooped. They were charging at the double 
then, and were upon us with short swords almost as soon 
as their javelins) When a man is close to you with such a 
sword, you can do nothing with our weapons: they are all 
too long. 

THE PERSIAN. What did you do? 

BEL AFFRIS. Doubled my fist and smote my Roman on 
the sharpness of his jaw. He was but mortal after all: he 
lay down in a stupor; and I took his sword and laid it on. 
[Drawing the sword] Lo! a Roman sword with Roman 
blood on it! 

THE GUARDSMEN [approvingly] Good! [ They take the sword 
and hand it round, examining it curiously). 

THE PERSIAN. And your men? 

BEL AFFRIS. Fled. Scattered like sheep. 

BELZANOR [ fzriously| ‘The cowardly slaves! Leaving the 
descendants of the gods to be butchered ! 

BEL AFFRIS [with acid coolness| ‘The descendants of the 
gods did not stay to be butchered, cousin. The battle was 
not to the strong; but the race was to the swift. The 
Romans, who have no chariots, sent a cloud of horsemen 
in pursuit, and slew multitudes. Then our high priest’s 
captain rallied a dozen descendants of the gods and exhorted 
us to die fighting. I said to myself: surely it is safer to stand 
than to lose my breath and be stabbed in the back; so I 
joined our captain and stood. Then the Romans treated 
us with respect ; for no man attacks a lion when the field 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 97 


is full of sheep, except for the pride and honor of war, of 
which these Romans know nothing. So we escaped with 
our lives; and I am come to warn you that you must open 
your gates to Cesar; for his advance guard is scarce an 
hour behind me; and not an Egyptian warrior is left stand- 
ing between you and his legions. 

THE SENTINEL. Woe, alas! [He throws down his javelin 
and flies into the palace.) 

BELZANOR. Nail him to the door, quick! [Te guardsmen 
rush for him with their spears; but ke is too quick for them]. 
Now this news will run through the palace like fire through 
stubble. 

BEL AFFRIS. What shall we do to save the women from 
the Romans? 

BELZANOR. Why not kill them? 

PERSIAN. Because we should have to pay blood money 
for some of them. Better let the Romans kill them: it is 
cheaper. 

BELZANOR [awestruck at his brain power| O subtle one! 
O serpent! 

BEL AFFRIS. But your Queen? 

BELZANOR. True: we must carry off Cleopatra. 

BEL AFFRIS. Will ye not await her command? 

BELZANOR. Command! a girl of sixteen! Not we. At 
Memphis ye deem her a Queen: here we know better. I 
will take her on the crupper of my horse. When we sol- 
diers have carried her out of Czsar’s reach, then the priests 
and the nurses and the rest of them can pretend she is a 
queen again, and put their commands into her mouth. 

PERSIAN. Listen to me, Belzanor. 

BELZANOR. Speak, O subtle beyond thy years. 

THE PERSIAN. Cleopatra’s brother Ptolemy is at war with 
her. Let us sell her to him. 

THE GUARDSMEN. O subtle one! O serpent! 

BELZANOR. We dare not. We are descended from the 
gods; but Cleopatra is descended from the river Nile; and 
the lands of our fathers will grow no grain if the Nile rises 


H 


g8 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


not to water them. Without our father’s gifts we should 
live the lives of dogs. 

PERSIAN. It is true: the Queen’s guard cannot live on 
its pay. But hear me further, O ye kinsmen of Osiris. 

THE GUARDSMEN. Speak, O subtle one. Hear the serpent 
begotten ! 

PERSIAN. Have I heretofore spoken truly to you of 
Cesar, when you thought I mocked you? 

GUARDSMEN. Truly, truly. 

BELZANOR [re/uctantly admitting it] So Bel Affris says. 

PERSIAN. Hear more of him, then. This Cesar is a 
great lover of women: he makes them his friends and 
counsellors. 

BELZANOR. Faugh! This rule of women will be the 
ruin of Egypt. 

THE PERSIAN. Let it rather be the ruin of Rome! Cesar 
grows old now: he is past fifty and full of labors and battles. 
He is too old for the young women ; and the old women 
are too wise to worship him. 

BEL aFFRIS. Take heed, Persian. Cesar is by this time 
almost within earshot. 

PERSIAN. Cleopatra Is not yet a woman: neither is she 
wise. But she already troubles men’s wisdom. 

BELZANOR. Ay: that 1s because she is descended from 
the river Nile and a black kitten of the sacred White Cat. 
What then? 

PERSIAN. Why, sell her secretly to Ptolemy, and then 
offer ourselves to Cesar as volunteers to fight for the over- 
throw of her brother and the rescue of our Queen, the 
Great Granddaughter of the Nile. 

THE GUARDSMEN. O serpent ! 

PERSIAN. He will listen to us if we come with her 
picture in our mouths. He will conquer and kill her 
brother, and reign in Egypt with Cleopatra for his Queen. 
And we shall be her guard. 

GUARDSMEN. O subtlest of all the serpents! O admira- 
tion! O wisdom ! 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 99 


BEL AFFRIS. He will also have arrived before you have 
done talking, O word spinner. 

BELZANOR. That is true. [4 affrighted uproar in the 
palace interrupts him], Quick: the flight has begun: guard 
the door. [Z#ey rush to the door and form a cordon before it 
with their spears. A mob of women-servants and nurses surges 
out. Those in front recoil from the spears, screaming to those 
behind to keep back. Belzanor’s voice dominates the disturbance 
as he stouts} Back there. In again, unprofitable cattle. 

THE GUARDSMEN. Back, unprofitable cattle. 

BELZANOR. Send us out Ftatateeta, the Queen’s chief 
nurse. 

THE WOMEN [calling into the palace] Ftatateeta, Ftatateeta. 
Come, come. Speak to Belzanor. 

a woman. Oh, keep back. You are thrusting me on the 
spearheads. 

A huge grim woman, her face covered with a network of 
tiny wrinkles, and her eyes old, large, and wise ; sinewy handed, 
very tall, very strong ; with the mouth of a bloodhound and the 
jaws of a bulldog, appears on the threshold. She is dressed like 
a person of consequence in the palace, and confronts the guards- 
men insolently. 

FTATATEETA. Make way for the Queen’s chief nurse. 

BELZANOR [cits solemn arrogance] “Ftatateeta : I am Bel- 
zanor, the captain of the Queen’s guard, descended from 
the gods. 

FTATATEETA [retorting his arrogance with interest] Bel- 
zanor : 1am Ftatateeta, the Queen’s chief nurse; and your 
divine ancestors were proud to be painted on the wall in 
the pyramids of the kings whom my fathers served. 

The women laugh triumphantly. 

BELZANOR [with grim /umor| Ftatateeta: daughter of a 
long-tongued, swivel-eyed chameleon, the Romans are at 
hand. [4 cry of terror from the women: they would fly but 
Sor the spears}. Not even the descendants of the gods can 
resist them; for they have each man seven arms, each 
carrying seven spears. The blood in their veins is boiling 


100 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


quicksilver; and their wives become mothers in three 
hours, and are slain and eaten the next day. 

A shudder of horror from the women, Ftatateeta, despising 
them and scorning the soldiers, pushes her way through the 
crowd and confronts the spear points undismayed. 

FTATATEETA. Then fly and save yourselves, O cowardly 
sons of the cheap clay gods that are sold to fish porters ; 
and leave us to shift for ourselves. 

BELZANOR. Not until you have first done our bidding, O 
terror of manhood. Bring out Cleopatra the Queen to us; 
and then go whither you will. 

FTATATEETA [with a derisive laugh| Now I know why the 
gods have taken her out of our hands. [ Z/e guardsmen start 
and look at one another). Know, thou foolish soldier, that 
the Queen has been missing since an hour past sundown. 

BELZANOR | furious/y] Hag: you have hidden her to sell 
to Cesar or her brother. [He grasps her by the left wrist, and 
drags her, helped by a few of the guard, to the middle of the 
courtyard, where, as they fling her on Fer knees, he draws a 
murderous looking knife]. Where is she? Where is she? or 
— [4e threatens to cut Fer throat}. 

FTATATEETA [savagely] ‘Touch me, dog; and the Nile 
will not rise on your fields for seven times seven years of 
famine. 

BELZANOR [ frightened, but desperate] I will sacrifice: I 
will pay. Or stay. [Zo the Persian] You, O subtle one: 
your father’s lands lie far from the Nile. Slay her. 

PERSIAN [threatening her with his knife| Persia has but 
one god; yet he loves the blood of old women. Where is 
Cleopatra? 

FTATATEETA. Persian: as Osiris lives, J do not know. 
I chid her for bringing evil days upon us by talking to the 
sacred cats of the priests, and carrying them in her arms. 
I told her she would be left alone here when the Romans 
came as a punishment for her disobedience. And now 
she is gone —run away —hidden. I speak the truth. I 
call Osiris to witness — 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 101 


THE WOMEN [ protesting officiously] She speaks the truth, 
Belzanor. 

BELZANOR. You have frightened the child: she is hiding. 
Search — quick —into the palace — search every corner. 

The guards, led by Belzanor, shoulder their way into the 
palace through the fiying crowd of women, who escape through 
the courtyard gate. 

FTATATEETA [screaming| Sacrilege! Men in the Queen’s 
chambers! Sa—T[“/er voice dies away as the Persian puts bis 
knife to her throat). 

BEL AFFRIS [/aying a hand on Ftatateeta’s left shoulder] 
Forbear her yet a moment, Persian. [70 Ftatateeta, very 
significantly} Mother: your gods are asleep or away hunt- 
ing ; and the sword is at your throat. Bring us to where 
the Queen is hid, and you shall live. 

FTATATEETA [ contemptuously] Who shall stay the sword in 
the hand of a fool, if the high gods put it there? Listen 
to me, ye young men without understanding. Cleopatra 
fears me; but she fears the Romans more. ‘There is 
but one power greater in her eyes than the wrath of 
the Queen’s nurse and the cruelty of Cesar; and that 
is the power of the Sphinx that sits in the desert watch- 
ing the way to the sea. What she would have it know, 
she tells into the ears of the sacred cats; and on her 
birthday she sacrifices to it and decks it with poppies. Go 
ye therefore into the desert and seek Cleopatra in the 
shadow of the Sphinx; and on your heads see to it that 
no harm comes to her. 

BEL AFERIS [fo the Persian] May we believe this, O subtle 
one? 

PERSIAN. Which way come the Romans? 

BEL AFFRIS. Over the desert, from the sea, by this very 
Sphinx. 

PERSIAN [to Ftatateeta] O mother of guile! O aspic’s 
tongue! You have made up this tale so that we two may 
go into the desert and perish on the spears of the Romans. 
[ Lifting his knife} Taste death. 


102 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


FTATATEETA. Not from thee, baby. [Se swatches his ankle 
from under him and flies stooping along the palace wall, vanishing 
in the darkness within its precinct. Bel Affris roars with 
laughter as the Persian tumbles. The guardsmen rush out of 
the palace with Belzanor and a mob of fugitives, mostly carry- 
ing bundles). 

Persian. Have you found Cleopatra? 

BELZANOR. Sheis gone. We have searched every corner. 

THE NUBIAN SENTINEL [appearing at the door of the palace] 
Woe! Alas! Fly, fly! 

BELZANOR. What is the matter now? 

THE NUBIAN SENTINEL. The sacred white cat has been 
stolen. 

aLL. Woe! woe! [General panic. They all fly with cries 
of consternation. The torch is thrown down and extinguished 
in the rush. Darkness. The noise of the fugitives dies away. 
Dead silence. Suspense. Then the blackness and stillness break 
softly into silver mist and strange airs as the windswept harp 
of Memnon plays at the dawning of the moon. It rises full over 
the desert; and a vast horizon comes into relief, broken by a 
huge shape which soon reveals itself in the spreading radiance as 
a Sphinx pedestalled on the sands. The light still clears, until 
the upraised eyes of the image are distinguished looking straight 
forward and upward in infinite fearless vigil, and a mass of 
color between its great paws defines itself as a heap of red poppies 
on which a girl lies motionless, her silken vest heaving gently 
and regularly with the breathing of a dreamless sleeper, and her 
braided hair glittering in a shaft of moonlight lke a bird's 
wing. 

Suddenly there comes from afar a vaguely fearful sound (it 
might be the bellow of a Minotaur softened by great distance) 
and Memunon’s music stops. Silence: then a few faint high- 
ringing trumpet notes. Then silence again. Then a man comes 
from the south with stealing steps, ravished by the mystery of the 
night, all wonder, and halts, lost in contemplation, opposite the 
left flank of the Sphinx, whose bosom, with its burden, is hidden 
rom him by its massive shoulder. 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 103 


THE MAN. Hail, Sphinx: salutation from Julius Cesar! 
I have wandered in many lands, seeking the lost regions 
from which my birth into this world exiled me, and the 
company of creatures such as I myself. I have found 
flocks and pastures, men and cities, but no other Cesar, no 
air native to me, no man kindred to me, none who can ao 
my day’s deed, and think my night’s thought. In the little 
world yonder, Sphinx, my place is as high as yours in this 
great desert; only I wander, and you sit still; I conquer, 
and you endure; I work and wonder, you watch and wait ; 
I look up and am dazzled, look down and am darkened, look 
round and am puzzled, whilst your eyes never turn from 
looking out — out of the world —to the lost region — the 
home from which we have strayed. Sphinx, you and I, 
strangers to the race of men, are no strangers to one another: 
have I not been conscious of you and of this place since I 
was born? Rome is a madman’s dream: this is my Reality. 
These starry lamps of yours I have seen from afar in Gaul, 
in Britain, in Spain, in Thessaly, signalling great secrets to 
some eternal sentinel below, whose post I never could 
find. And here at last is their sentinel —an image of the 
constant and immortal part of my life, silent, full of 
thoughts, alone inthe silver desert. Sphinx, Sphinx: I 
have climbed mountains at night to hear in the distance 
the stealthy footfall of the winds that chase your sands in 
forbidden play —our invisible children, O Sphinx, laughing 
in whispers. My way hither was the way of destiny; for 
I am he of whose genius yeu are the symbol: part brute, 
part woman, and part god — nothing of man in me at all. 
Have I read your riddle, Sphinx? 

THE GIRL [who has wakened, and peeped cautiously from 
her nest to see who is speaking| Old gentleman. 

c#sar [starting violently, and clutching his sword) Im- 
mortal gods! 

THE GIRL. Old gentleman: dont run away. 

cesar [stupefied| “Oldgentleman: dontrunaway”!!! 
This! to Julius Cesar! 


104 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


THE GIRL [urgently] Old gentleman. 

c/esaR. Sphinx: you presume on your centuries. I am 
younger than you, though your voice is but a girl’s voice 
as yet. 

THE GIRL. Climb up here, quickly ; or the Romans will 
come and eat you. 

c#sar [running forward past the Sphinx’s shoulder, and 
seeing her| A child at its breast! a divine child! 

THE GIRL. Come up quickly. You must get up at its 
side and creep round. 

cEsAR [amazed] Who are you? 

THE GIRL. Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt. 

cvesarR. Queen of the Gypsies, you mean. 

CLEOPATRA. You must not be disrespectful to me, or the 
Sphinx will let the Romans eat you. Comeup. It is quite 
cosy here. 

cesar [to Aimself] What adream! What a magnificent 
dream! Only let me not wake, and I will conquer ten 
continents to pay for dreaming it out to the end. [He 
climbs to the Sphinx’s flank, and presently reappears to her on 
the pedestal, stepping round its right shoulder]. 

CLEoPATRA. Take care. That’s right. Now sit down: 
you may have its other paw. [Sze seats herself comfortably 
on its left paw]. It is very powerful and will protect us; 
but [shivering, and with plaintive loneliness] it would not take 
any notice of me or keep me company. I am glad you have 
come: I was very lonely. Did you happen to see a white 
cat anywhere? 

CAESAR [sitting slowly down on the right paw in extreme 
wonderment| Have you lost one? 

CLEOPATRA. Yes: the sacred white cat: is it not dread- 
ful? I brought him here to sacrifice him to the Sphinx; 
but when we got a little way from the city a black cat 
called him, and he jumped out of my arms and ran away 
to it. Do you think that the black cat can have been my 
great-great-great-grandmother? 

c#sar [staring at her] Your great-great-great-grand- 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 105 


mother! Well, why not? Nothing would surprise me on 
this night of nights. 

CLEOPATRA. I think it must have been. My great-grand- 
mother’s great-grandmother was a black kitten of the sacred 
white cat ; and the river Nile made her his seventh wife. 
That is why my hair is so wavy. And I always want to be 
let do as I like, no matter whether it is the will of the gods 
or not: that is because my blood is made with Nile water. 

cesar. What are you doing here at this time of night? 
Do you live here? 

CLEOPATRA. Of course not: I am the Queen; and I 
shall live in the palace at Alexandria when I have killed 
my brother, who drove me out of it. When I am old 
enough I shall do just what I like. I shall be able to poison 
the slaves and see them wriggle, and pretend to Ftatateeta 
that she is going to be put into the fiery furnace. 

c#saR. Hm! Meanwhile why are you not at home and 
in bed? 

CLEOPATRA. Because the Romans are coming to eat us 
all. You are not at home and in bed either. 

cmsaR [with conviction] Yeslam. I live inatent; and I 
am now in that tent, fast asleep and dreaming. Do you 
suppose that I believe you are real, you impossible little 
dream witch? 

CLEOPATRA [giggling and leaning trustfully towards him] 
You are a funny old gentleman. I like you. 

ca@sar. Ah, that spoils the dream. Why dont you 
dream that I am young? 

CLEOPATRA. I wish you were; only I think I should be 
more afraid of you. I like men, especially young men with 
round strong arms; but I am afraid of them. You are old 
and rather thin and stringy ; but you have anice voice; and 
I like to have somebody to talk to, though I think you are 
a little mad. It is the moon that makes you talk to yourself 
in that silly way. 

cesar. What! you heard that, did you? I was saying 
my prayers to the great Sphinx. 


106 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


CLEOPATRA. But this isnt the great Sphinx. 

cmsar [such disappointed, looking up at the statue] What! 

CLEOPATRA. This is only a dear little kitten of a Sphinx. 
Why, the great Sphinx is so big that it has a temple between 
its paws. This is my pet Sphinx. Tell me: do you think 
the Romans have any sorcerers who could take us away 
from the Sphinx by magic? 

cmsar. Why? Are you afraid of the Romans? 

CLEOPATRA [very seriously] Oh, they would eat us if they 
caught us. They are barbarians. Their chief is called 
Julius Caesar. His father was a tiger and his mother a 
burning mountain; and his nose is like an elephant’s trunk. 
[Cesar involuntarily rubs his nose]. ‘Vhey all have long 
noses, and ivory tusks, and little tails, and seven arms with 
a hundred arrows in each; and they live on human flesh. 

c@sar. Would you like me to shew you a real Roman? 

CLEOPATRA [terrifed| No. You are frightening me. 

cmsar. No matter: this is only a dream — 

CLEOPATRA [excited/y] It is not a dream: it is not a 
dream. See, see. [S4e plucks a pin from her hair and jabs it 
repeatedly into his arm]. 

cmsar. Ffff— Stop. [Wrathfully] How dare you? 

cLeopaTra [abashed| You said you were dreaming. 
[Vhimpering] 1 only wanted to shew you — 

cesar [gently] Come, come: dont cry. A queen mustnt 
cry. [He rubs his arm, wondering at the reality of the smart}. 
Am Tawake? [He strikes his hand against the Sphinx to test 
its solidity. It feels so real that he begins to be alarmed, and 
says perplexedly| Yes, 1— [quite panicstricken] no: impos- 
sible: madness, madness! [Desperately] Back to camp — 
to camp [He rises to spring down from the pedestal). 

cLeopatra [ flinging her arms in terror round him| No: 
you shant leave me. No, no, no: dont go. I’m afraid — 
afraid of the Romans. 

cmsar [as the conviction that he is really awake forces 
itself on him| Cleopatra: can you see my face well? 

cLeopaTra. Yes. It is so white in the moonlight. 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 107 


caesar. Are you sure it is the moonlight that makes me 
look whiter than an Egyptian? [Grim/y] Do you notice 
that I have a rather long nose? 

CLEOPATRA [recoiling, paralyzed by a terrible suspicion] Oh! 

cvesaR. It is a Roman nose, Cleopatra. 

creopatra. Ah! [With a piercing scream she springs up; 
darts round the left shoulder of the Sphinx; scrambles down 
to the sand; and falls on her knees in frantic supplicdtion, 
shrieking| Bite him in two, Sphinx: bite him in two. I 
meant to sacrifice the white cat — I did indeed —I [Cesar, 
who has slipped down from the pedestal, touches her on the 
shoulder} An! [S4e buries her head in her arms). 

czesaR. Cleopatra: shall I teach you a way to prevent 
Cesar from eating you? 

CLEOPATRA [clinging to him piteously] Oh do, do, do. I 
will steal Ftatateeta’s jewels and give them to you. I will 
make the river Nile water your lands twice a year. 

c#SAR. Peace, peace, my child. Your gods are afraid 
of the Romans: you see the Sphinx dare not bite me, nor 
prevent me carrying you off to Julius Cesar. 

CLEOPATRA [7 pleading murmurings| You wont, you 
wont. You said you wouldnt. 

cesar. Cesar never eats women. 

CLEOPATRA [springing up full of hope| What ! 

c#SAR [impressively] But he eats girls [se relapses] and 
cats. Now you area silly little girl; and you are descended 
from the black kitten. You are both a girl and a cat. 

cLEopATRA [trembling] And will he eat me? 

c#sar. Yes; unless you make him believe that you are 
a woman. 

CLEOPATRA. Oh, you must get a sorcerer to make a 
woman of me. Are you a sorcerer? 

c#sar. Perhaps. But it will take along time; and this 
very night you must stand face to face with Cesar in the 
palace of your fathers. 

CLEOPATRA. No, no. I darent. 

cesar. Whatever dread may be in your soul — however 


108 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


terrible Casar may be to you—you must confront him as 
a brave woman and a great queen; and you must fecl no 
fear. If your hand shakes: if your voice quavers; then — 
nightand death! [S/e moans]. Butif he thinks you worthy 
to rule, he will set you on the throne by his side and make 
you the real ruler of Egypt. 

CLEOPATRA [despairingly] No: he will find me out: he 
will find me out. 

cmsar [rather mournfully] He is easily deceived by 
women. Their eyes dazzle him; and he sees them not as 
they are, but as he wishes them to appear to him. 

CLEOPATRA [/opefully] Then we will cheat him. I will 
put on Ftatateeta’s head-dress; and he will think me quite 
an old woman. 

c#sar. If you do that he will eat you at one mouthful. 

cLEopATRA. But I will give him a cake with my magic 
opal and seven hairs of the white cat baked in it; and — 

c#sar [abruptly] Pah! you are a little fool. He will 
eat your cake and you too. [He turns contemptuously from 
fer |. 

CLEOPATRA [running after him and clinging to him| Oh 
please, please! I will do whatever you tell me. I will be 
good. I will be your slave. [Again the terrible bellowing 
note sounds across the desert, now closer at hand, It is the 
bucina, the Roman war trumpet). 

cesar. Hark! 

cLeopaTRA [trembling| What was that? 

cesar. Ceesar’s voice. 

cLeopaTrRa [ pulling at his hand| Let usrun away. Come. 
Oh, come. 

c#saR. You are safe with me until you stand on your 
throne to receive Cesar. Now lead me thither. 

cLEoPpATRA [only too glad to get away| I will, I will. 
[Again the bucina|. Oh come, come, come: the gods are 
angry. Do you feel the earth shaking? 

cmsar. It is the tread of Cesar’s legions. 

CLEOPATRA [drawing him away| This way, quickly. And 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra 10g 


let us look for the white cat as we go. It is he that has 
turned you into a Roman. 

c#sar. Incorrigible, oh, incorrigible! Away! [He 
follows her, the bucina sounding louder as they steal across the 
desert. The moonlight wanes: the horizon again shows black 
against the sky, broken only by the fantastic silhouette of the 
Sphinx. The sky itself vanishes in darkness, from which there 
is no relief until the gleam of a distant torch falls on great 
Egyptian pillars supporting the roof of a majestic corridor. At 
the further end of this corridor a Nubian slave appears carry- 
ing the torch. Ceasar, still led by Clecpatra, follows him. They 
come down the corridor, Casar peering keenly about at the 
strange architecture, and at the pillar shadows between which, 
as the passing torch makes them hurry noiselessly backwards, 
figures of men with wings and hawks heads, and vast black 
marble cats, seem to flit in and out of ambush. Furtler along, 
the wall turns a corner and makes a spacious transept in which 
Ceasar sees, on his right, a throne, and behind the throne a door. 
On each side of the throne is a slender pillar with a lamp on it. 

csaR. What place 1s this? 

CLEOPATRA. This is where I sit on the throne when I 
am allowed to wear my crown and robes. [Z7e slave holds 
his torch to shew the throne]. 

cesar. Order the slave to light the lamps. 

CLEOPATRA [s4y/y] Do you think I may? 

cmsar. Of course. You are the Queen. [S/e /esitates]. 
Go on. : 

CLEOPATRA [timidly, to the slave] Light all the lamps. 

FTATATEETA [suddenly coming from behina the throne| Stop. 
[The slave stops. She turns sternly to Cleopatra, who quails 
like a naughty child). Who is this you have with you; and 
how dare you order the lamps to be lighted without my 
permission? [Cleopatra is dumb with apprelension]. 

cesar. Who is she? 

CLEOPATRA. Ftatateeta. 

FTATATEETA [arrogantly] Chief nurse to — 

cmsar [cutting her short] lspeak to the Queen. Be silent. 


110 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


[Zo Cleopatra} Is this how your servants know their places? 
Send her away; and do you [¢o te slave] do as the Queen 
has bidden. [ Z#e slave lights the lamps. Meanwhile Cleo- 
patra stands kesitating, afraid of Ftatateeta|. You are the 
Queen: send her away. 

CLEOPATRA [cajoling] Ftatateeta, dear: you must go away 
— just for a little. | 

cvesar. You are not commanding her to go away: you 
are begging her. You are no Queen. You will be eaten. 
Farewell. [He turns to go]. 

CLEOPATRA [clutching fim] No, no, no. Dont leave me. 

czesar. A Roman does not stay with queens who are 
afraid of their slaves. 

CLEOPATRA. I am not afraid. Indeed I am not afraid. 

FTATATEETA. We shall see who is afraid here. [ Mena- 
cingly| Cleopatra — 

c#saR. On your knees, woman: am I also a child that 
you dare trifle with me? [He points to the floor at Cleopatra's 
feet. Ftatateeta, half cowed, half savage, hesitates. Ceasar 
calls to the Nubian} Slave. [The Nubian comes to him] Can 
you cut offahead? [The Nubian nods and grins ecstatically, 
showing all bis teeth. Cesar takes his sword by the scab- 
bard, ready to offer the Lilt to the Nubian, and turns again 
to Ftatateeta, repeating fis gesture]. Wave you remembered 
yourself, mistress? 

Fratateeta, crushed, kneels before Cleopatra, who can hardly 
believe fer eyes. 

FTATATEETA [Aoarse/y] O Queen, forget not thy servant 
in the days of thy greatness. 

CLEOPATRA [4/axing with excitement) Go. Begone. Go 
away. [Ftatateeta rises with stooped lead, and moves backwards 
towards the door. Cleopatra watches her submission eagerly, 
almost clapping her hands, which are trembling. Suddenly she 
cries} Give me something to beat her with. [S/e suatches a 
snake-skin from the throne and dashes after Ftatateeta, whirling 
it like a scourge in the air. Ca@sar makes a bound and manages 
to catch her and hold her while Ftatateeta escapes). 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra III 


c#sar. You scratch, kitten, do you? 

cLeopaTra [breaking from him) I will beat somebody. I 
will beat him. [S/e attacks the slave]. There, there, there! 
[The slave flies for his life up the corridor and vanishes. She 
throws the snake-skin away and jumps on the step of the throne 
with her arms waving, crying| I am a real Queen at last — 
a real, real Queen! Cleopatra the Queen! [Cesar shakes 
his head dubiously, the advantage of the change seeming open to 
guestion from the point of view of the general welfare of Egypt. 
She turns and looks at him exultantly. Then she jumps down 
from the step, runs to him, and flings her arms round him 
rapturously, crying] Oh, I love you for making me a 
Queen. 

cz#sar. But queens love only kings. 

CLEOPATRA. I will make all the men I love kings. I will 
make you a king. I will have many young kings, with 
round, strong arms; and when I am tired of them I will 
whip them to death; but you shall always be my king: 
my nice, kind, wise, good old king. 

c#sar. Oh, my wrinkles, my wrinkles! And my child’s 
heart! You will be the most dangerous of all Czsar’s con- 
quests. 

CLEOPATRA [appalled] Cxsar! I forgot Cesar. [Anxiously] 
You will tell him that Iam a Queen, will you not?—a 
real Queen. Listen! [steal/thily coaxing him]: let us run 
away and hide until Cesar is gone. 

czsar. If you fear Czsar, you are no true queen; and 
though you were to hide beneath a pyramid, he would go 
straight to it and lift it with one hand. And then —! [Ze 
chops his teeth together]. 

CLEOPATRA [trembling] Oh! 

c@sar. Be afraid if you dare. [Zhe note of the bucina re- 
sounds again in the distance. She moans with fear. Caesar 
exults in it, exclaiming| Aha! Cesar approaches the throne 
of Cleopatra. Come: take your place. [He takes her hand 
and leads her to the throne. She is too downeast to speak). Ho, 
there, Teetatota. How do you call your slaves? 


112 Three Plays for, Puritans Act I 


CLEOPATRA [spiritlessly, as she ae on the throne and cowers 
there, shaking). Clap your hands. 

[Te claps his hands. Ftatateeta returns. 

cesar. Bring the Queen’s robes, and her crown, and 
her women; and prepare her. 

cLEopATRA [eagerly — recovering Lerself a little] Yes, the 
crown, Ftatateeta: I shall wear the crown. 

FIATATEETA. For whom must the Queen put on her state? 

cmsar. For a citizen of Rome. A king of kings, Tota- 
(eet. 

CLEOPATRA [stamping at fer] How dare you ask ques- 
tions? Go and do as you are told. [Ftatateeta goes out with 
a grim smile. Cleopatra goes on eagerly, to Ce@sar| Cesar will 
know that [am a Queen when he sees my crown and robes, 
will he not? 

c#sar. No. How shall he know that you are not a 
slave dressed up in the Queen’s ornaments? 

CLEOPATRA. You must tell him. 

c#sar. He will not ask me. He will know Cleopatra by 
her pride, her courage, her majesty, and her beauty. [Se 
looks very doubtful]. Are you trembling? 

CLEOPATRA [shivering with dread| No, 1—I—[iz a very 
sickly voice] No. 

Ftatateeta and three women come in with the regalia. 

FTATATEETA, Of all the Queen’s women, these three 
alone are left. The rest are fled. [Zhey begin to deck Cleo- 
patra, who submits, pale and motionless). 

c#sar. Good, good. Tite are enough. Poor Cesar 
generally has to dress himsel¥* 

FTATATEETA [contemptuously] The queen of Egypt 1s not 
a Roman barbarian. [70 Cleopatra) Be brave, my nursling. 
Hold up your head before this stranger. 

c@sar [admiring Cleopatra, and placing the crown on her 
fead| 1s it sweet or bitter to be a Queen, Cleopatra? 

CLEOPATRA. Bitter. 

c#sar. Cast out fear; and you will conquer Cesar, 
Tota: are the Romans at hand? 


Act 1 Cesar and Cleopatra i 


FTATATEETA. They are at hand ; and the guard has fled. 

THE WOMEN [wailing subduedly| Woe to us! 

The Nubian comes running down the hall. 

nuBIAN. ‘he Romans are in the courtyard. [He do/ts 
through the door. With a shriek, the women fly after him. 
Fratateeta’s jaw expresses savage resolution: she does not budge. 
Cleopatra can hardly restrain herself from following them. 
Cesar grips her wrist, and looks steadfastly at her. She stands 
like a martyr |. 

cmsar. The Queen must face Cesar alone. Answer 
850 belts” 

CLEOPATRA [w4ite] So be it. 

cesar [releasing Fer] Good. 

A tramp and tumult of armed men is heard, Cleopatra’s 
terror increases. The bucina sounds close at hand, followed by a 
Sormidable clangor of trumpets. This is too much for Cleopatra: 
she utters a cry and darts towards the door. Ftatateeta stops 
her ruthlessly. 

FTATATEETA. You are my nursling. You have said ‘So 
be it’’; and if you die for it, you must make the Queen’s 
word good. [Ste hands Cleopatra to Caesar, who takes her 
back, almost beside herself with apprehension, to the throne}. 

cesar. Now, if you quail—! [He seats himself on the 
throne |. 

She stands on the step, all but unconscious, waiting for death. 
The Roman soldiers troop in tumultuously through the corridor, 
headed by their ensign with his eagle, and their bucinator, a 
burly fellow with his instrument coiled round his body, its brazen 
bell shaped like the head of a howling wolf. When they reach 
the transept, they stare in amazement at the throne; dress into 
ordered rank opposite it; draw their swords and lift them in 
the air with a shout of Hail, Cesar. Cleopatra turns and 
stares wildly at Caesar; grasps the situation; and, with a great 
sob of relief, falls into his arms. 


ACT Il 


Alexandria. A hall on the first floor of the Palace, ending 
in a loggia approached by two steps. Through the arches of the 
loggia the Mediterranean can be seen, bright in the morning 
sun. The clean lofty walls, painted with a procession of the 
Egyptian theocracy, presented in profile as flat ornament, and 
the absence of mirrors, sham perspectives, stuffy upholstery and 
textiles, make the place handsome, wholesome, simple and cool, 
or, as a rich English manufacturer would express it, poor, bare, 
ridiculous and unhomely. For Tottenham Court Road civiliza- 
tion is to this Egyptian civilization as glass bead and tattoo 
civilization is to Tottenham Court Road. 

The young king Ptolemy Dionysus (aged ten) is at the top 
of the steps, on his way in through the loggia, led by bis guardian 
Pothinus, who has him by the hand. The court is assembled to 
receive him. It is made up of men and women (some of the 
women being officials) of various complexions and races, mostly 
Egyptian; some of them, comparatively fair, from lower Egypt ; 
some, much darker, from upper Egypt; with a few Greeks and 
Fews. Prominent in a group on Ptolemy’s right hand is Theo- 
dotus, Ptolemy's tutor. Another group, on Ptolemy's left, is 
headed by Achillas, the general of Ptolemy’s troops. Theodotus 
is a little old man, whose features are as cramped and wizened 
as his limbs, except his tall straight forehead, which occupies 
more space than all the rest of his face. He maintains an air of 
magpie keenness and profundity, listening to what the others say 
with the sarcastic vigilance of a philosopher listening to the exer- 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 8 


cises of his disciples. Achillas is a tall handsome man of thirty- 
five, with a fine black beard curled like the coat of a poodle. 
Apparently not a clever man, but distinguished and dignified, 
Pothinus is a vigorous man of fifty, a eunuch, passionate, ener- 
getic and quick witted, but of common mind and character; 
impatient and unable to control his temper. He has fine tawny 
hair, like fur. Ptolemy, the King, looks much older than an 
English boy of ten; but Le has the childish air, the habit of 
being in leading strings, the mixture of impotence and petulance, 
the appearance of being excessively washed, combed and dressed 
by other hands, which is exhibited by court-bred princes of all 
ages. 

7 All receive the King with reverences. He comes down the 
steps to a chair of state which stands a little to his right, the 
only seat in the hall. Taking his place before it, he looks nervously 
for instructions to Pothinus, who places himself at his left hand. 


poTHinus. The king of Egypt has a word to speak. 

THEODOTUS [27 a squeak which Le makes impressive by sheer 
self-opinionativeness! Peace for the King’s word! 

PTOLEMY [without any vocal inflexions: he is evidently repeat- 
ing a lesson| ‘Take notice of this all of you. I am the first- 
born son of Auletes the Flute Blower who was your King. 
My sister Berenice drove him from his throne and reigned 
in his stead but — but — [Ze 4esitates] — 

PoTHINUs [stealthily prompting |— but the gods would not 
suffer — 

PYTOLEMY. Yes—the gods would not suffer — not suffer 
— [He stops; then, crestfallen| I forget what the gods would 
not suffer. 

THEODOTUS. Let Pothinus, the King’s guardian, speak for 
the King. 

POTHINUS [suppressing his impatience with difficulty) The 
King wished to say that the gods would not suffer the 
impiety of his sister to go unpunished. 

PTOLEMY [Aastily] Yes: I remember the rest of it. [He 
resumes his monotone]. ‘Therefore the gods sent a stranger 


10 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


one Mark Antony a Roman captain of horsemen across the 
sands of the desert and he set my father again upon the 
throne. And my father took Berenice my sister and struck 
her head off. And now that my father is dead yet another 
of his daughters my sister Cleopatra would snatch the king- 
dom from me and reign in my place. But the gods would 
not suffer —[ Pothinus coughs admonitorily | — the gods—the 
gods would not suffer — 

poTHiNus [ prompting] — will not maintain — 

PTOLEMY. Oh yes — will not maintain such iniquity they 
will give her head to the axe even as her sister’s. But with 
the help of the witch Ftatateeta she hath cast a spell on the 
Roman Julius Czsar to make him uphold her false pretence 
to rule in Egypt. Take notice then that I will not suffer 
—that I will not suffer —[ pettis//y, to Pothinus] What is 
it that I will not suffer? 

poTHinus [suddenly exploding with all the force and emphasis 
of political passion} 'The King will not suffer a foreigner to 
take from him the throne of our Egypt. [4 shout of ap- 
plause]. Tell the King, Achillas, how many soldiers and 
horsemen follow the Roman? 

rHEODoTUs. Let the King’s general speak ! 

ACHILLAS. But two Roman legions, O King. ‘Three 
thousand soldiers and scarce a thousand horsemen. 

The court breaks into derisive laughter; and a great chat- 
tering begins, amid which Rufio, a Roman officer, appears in 
the loggia. He is a burly, black-bearded man of middle age, 
very blunt, prompt and rough, with small clear eyes, and plump 
nose and cheeks, which, however, like the rest of his flesh, are in 
ironhard condition, ee 

ruFIo [ from the steps] Peace, ho! [Tze laughter and 
chatter cease abruptly|, Czesar approaches. 

THEopoTus [with much presence of mind| The King per- 
mits the Roman commander to enter! 

Cesar, plainly dressed, but wearing an oak wreath to conceal 
his baldness, enters from the loggia, attended by Britannus, his 
secretary, a Briton, about forty, tall, solemn, and already 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 7 


slightly bald, with a heavy, drooping, bazxel-colored moustache 
trained so as to lose its ends in a pair of trim whiskers. He is 
carefully dressed in blue, with portfolio, inkhorn, and reed pen 
at his girdle. His serious air and sense of the importance of the 
business in hand is in marked contrast to the kindly interest of 
Caesar, who looks at the scene, which is new to him, with the 
frank curiosity of a child, and then turns to the king’s chair: 
Britannus and Rufio posting themselves near the steps at the 
other side. 

c#saR [looking at Pothinus and Ptolemy] Which is the 
King? the man or the boy? 

poTHinus. I am Pothinus, the guardian of my lerd the 
King. 

cesar [ patting Ptolemy kindly on the stoulder] So you are 
the King. Dull work at your age, eh? [Zo Pottinus| Your 
servant, Pothinus. [He turns away unconcernedly and comes 
slowly along the middle of the hall, looking from side to side at 
the courtiers until he reaches Achillas|. And this gentleman? 

rHEopoTtus. Achillas, the King’s general. 

cesar [to Achillas, very friendly| A general,eh? Iama 
general myself. But I began too old, too old. Health and 
many victories, Achillas ! 

ACHILLAS. As the gods will, Cesar. 

c#sar [turning to Theodotus| And you, sir, are—? 

THEODOTUS. Theodotus, the King’s tutor. 

c#sar. You teach men how to be kings, Theodotus. 
That is very clever of you. [Looking at the gods on the walls 
as ke turns away from Theodotus and goes up again to Pothinus| 
And this place? 

poTHinus. The council chamber of the chancellors of 
the King’s treasury, Cesar. 

cz#sar. Ah! that reminds me. I want some money. 

poTHinus. T‘he King’s treasury is poor, Cesar. 

c#sar. Yes: J notice that there is but one chair in it. 

RuFIO [shouting grufiy| Bring a chair there, some of 
you, for Cesar. 

PTOLEMY [rising shyly to offer his chair] Caesar — 


118 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


c#sar [kindly] No, no, my boy: that is your chair of 
state. Sit down. 

He makes Ptolemy sit down again. Meanwhile Rufio, look- 
ing about him, sees in the nearest corner an image of the god 
Ra, represented as a seated man with the head of a hawk. 
Before the image is a bronze tripod, about as large as a three- 
legged stool, with a stick of incense burning on it. Rufio, with 
Roman resourcefulness and indifference to foreign superstitions, 
promptly seizes the tripod ; s shakes off the incense; blows away 
the ash; and dumps it down behind CFs nearly in the middle 
of the hall. 

RUFIO. Sit on that, Cesar. 

A shiver runs through the court, followed by a hissing 
whisper of Sacrilege | 

cesar [seating himself | Now, Pothinus, to business. I 
am badly in want of money. 

BRITANNUS | disapproving of these informal expressions] My 
master would say that there is a lawful debt due to Rome 
by Egypt, contracted by the King’s deceased father to the 
Triumvirate; and that it is Crsar’s duty to his country to 
require immediate payment. 

csaR [d/andly| Ah, I forgot. I ave not made my 
companions known here. Pothinus: this is Britannus, my 
secretary. He is an islander from the western end of the 
world, a day’s voyage from Gaul. [Britannus bows stiffly]. 
This gentleman is Rufio, my comrade in arms. [Rufio nods}. 
Pothinus: I want 1,600 talents. 

The courtiers, appalled, murmur loudly, and Theodotus and 
Achillas appeal mutely to one another against so monstrous a 
demand, 

POTHINUS [aghast] Forty million sesterces! Impossible. 
There is not so much money in the King’s treasury. 

cesar [encouragingly| Only sixteen hundred talents, 
Pothinus. Why count it in sesterces? A sestertius is only 
worth a loaf of bread. 

poTHinus. And a talent is worth a racehorse. I say it is 
impossible. We have been at strife here, because the King’s 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 11g 


sister Cleopatra falsely claims his throne. The King’s taxes 
have not been collected for a whole year. 

c#sar. Yes they have, Pothinus. My officers have been 
collecting them all the morning. [Renewed whisper and sen- 
sation, not without some stifled laughter, among the courtiers). 

ruFIo [4/untly} You must pay, Pothinus. Why waste 
words? You are getting off cheaply enough. 

poruinus [Jditter/y|] Is it possible that Cesar, the con- 
queror of the world, has time to occupy himself with such 
a trifle as our taxes? 

cesar. My friend: taxes are the chief business of a 
conqueror of the world. 

poTHinus. Then take warning, Cesar. This day, the 
treasures of the temples and the gold of the King’s treasury 
shall be sent to the mint to be melted down for our ransom 
in the sight of the people. They shall see us sitting under 
bare walls and drinking from wooden cups. And their 
wrath be on your head, Cesar, if you force us to this 
sacrilege ! 

c#sar. Do not fear, Pothinus: the people know how well 
wine tastes in wooden cups. In return for your bounty, I 
will settle this dispute about the throne for you, if you will. 
What say you? 

poTHinus. If I say no, will that hinder you? 

RUFIO [defiantly] No. 

czesaR. You say the matter has been at issue for a year, 
Pothinus. May I have ten minutes at it? 

POTHINUS. You will do your pleasure, doubtless. 

cesar. Good! But first, let us have Cleopatra here. 

THEODOTUS. She is not in Alexandria: she is fled into 
Syria. 

c#sar. I think not. [Zo Rufio] Call Totateeta. 

ruFIO [Ca//ing| Ho there, Teetatota. 

Ftatateeta enters the loggia, and stands arrogantly at the top 
of the steps. 

FTATATEETA. Who pronounces the name of Ftatateeta, 
the Queen’s chief nurse? 


120 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


cesar. Nobody can pronounce it, Tota, except your- 
self. Where is your mistress? 

Cleopatra, who is Fiding behind Ftatateeta, peeps out at then, 
laughing. Casar rises. 

cesar. Will the Queen favor us with her presence for 
a moment? 

CLEOPATRA [ pushing Ftatateeta aside and standing haughtily 
on the brink of the steps| Am I to behave like a Queen? 

CESAR. Yes. 

Cleopatra immediately comes down to the chair of state; 
seizes Ptolemy; drags him out of his seat; then takes his 
place in the chair. Ftatateeta seats herself on the step of tle 
loggia, and sits there, watching the scene with sibylline intensity. 

PTOLEMY [mortified, and struggling with fis tears] Cesar: 
this is how she treats me always. If I am a king why is 
she allowed to take everything from me? 

CLEOPATRA. You are not to be King, you little cry-baby. 
You are to be eaten by the Romans. 

c#sar [touched by Ptolemy's distress! Come here, my boy, 
and stand by me. 

Ptolemy goes over to Cesar, who, resuming his seat on the 
tripod, takes the boy’s hand to encourage tim. Cleopatra, furi- 
ously jealous, rises and glares at them. 

CLEOPATRA [with flaming cheeks| ‘Take your throne: I 
dont want it. [S/e flings away from the chair, and approaches 
Ptolemy, who shrinks from her]. Go this instant and sit 
down in your place. 

c@sar. Go, Ptolemy. Always take a throne when it is 
offered to you.. 

ruFIo. I hope you will have the gcod sense to follow 
your own advice when we return to Rome, Cesar. 

Ptolemy slowly goes back to the throne, giving Cleopatra a 
cvide berth, in evident fear of her hands. She takes his place 
beside Cesar. 

c#sar. Pothinus — 

CLEOPATRA [ivterrupting him] Are you not going to speak 
to me? 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 121 


cesar. Be quiet. Open your mouth again before I give 
you leave; and you shall be eaten. 

CLEOPATRA. I am not afraid. A queen must not be afraid. 
Eat my husband there, i you like: he is afraid. 

czEsAR [starting] Your husband! What do you mean? 

CLEOPATRA [ pointing to Ptolemy] ‘That little thing. 

Lhe two Romans and the Briton stare at one another in 
amazement. 

THEODOTUS. Cesar: you are a stranger here, and not 
conversant with our laws. The kings and queens of Egypt 
may not marry except with their own royal blood. Ptolemy 
and Cleopatra are born king and consort just as they are 
born brother and sister. 

BRITANNUS [shocked] Cesar: this is not proper. 

THEODOTUS [outraged] How! 

czESAR [recovering fis self-possession| Pardon him, Theo- 
dotus: he is a barbarian, and thinks that the customs of his 
tribe and island are the laws of nature. 

BRITANNUS. On the contrary, Cesar, it is these Egyptians 
who are barbarians; and you do wrong to encourage them. 
I say it is a scandal. 

CESAR. Scandal or not, my friend, it opens the gate of 
peace. [He addresses Pothinus seriously]. Pothinus: hear 
what I propose. 

ruFlo. Hear Cesar there. 

c#saR. Ptolemy and Cleopatra shall reign jointly in 
Egypt. 

ACHILLAS. What of the King’s younger brother and 
Cleopatra’s younger sister? 

RUFIO [exp/aiwing] ‘There is another little Ptolemy, 
Cesar: so they tell me. 

cesar. Well, the little Ptolemy can marry the other 
sister ; and we will make them both a present of Cyprus. 

poTHINuS [impatiently] Cyprus is of no use to any- 
body. 

csar. No matter: you shall have it for the sake of 
peace. 


122 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


BRiTaNNus [anconsciously anticipating a later statesman] 
Peace with honor, Pothinus. 

POTHINUS [mutinously| Caesar: be honest. The money 
you demand is the price of our freedom. Take it; and leave 
us to settle our own affairs. 

THE BOLDER CourTiers [encouraged by Pothinus’s tone and 
Cesar’s quietness] Yes, yes. Egypt for the Egyptians ! 

The conference now becomes an altercation, the Egyptians 
becoming more and more heated. Cesar remains unruffied; but 
Rufio grows fiercer and doggeder, and Britannus haughtily in- 
dignant. 

RUFIO [contemptuous/y] Egypt for the Egyptians! Do you 
forget that there is a Roman army of occupation here, left 
by Aulus Gabinius when he set up your toy king for 
you? 

ACHILLAS [suddenly asserting Limse/f| And now under my 
command. Jam the Roman general here, Cesar. 

cesar [tickled by the fumor of the situation] And also the 
Egyptian general, eh? 

PoTHINus [triamphantly] 'That is so, Cesar. 

c#sar [to Achillas} So you can make war on the 
Egyptians in the name of Rome, and on the Romans — on 
me, if necessary —in the name of Egypt? 

ACHILLAS. That is so, Cesar. 

ca#sar. And which side are you on at present, if I may 
presume to ask, general ? 

ACHILLaSs. On the side of the right and of the gods. 

cesar. Hm! How many men have you? 

ACHILLAS. That will appear when I take the field. 

ruFIo [truculently| Are your men Romans? If not, it 
matters not how many there are, provided you are no 
stronger than §00 to ten. 

POTHINUS. It is useless to try to bluff us, Rufio. Cesar 
has been defeated before and may be defeated again. A 
few weeks ago Cesar was flying for his life before Pompey: 
a few months hence he may be flying for his life before 
Cato and Juba of Numidia, the African King. 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 123 


ACHILLAS [ following up Pothinus’s speech menacingly| What 
can you do with 4,000 men? 

tHEODOTUS [ following up Achillas’s speech with a raucous 
sgueak| And without money? Away with you. 

ALL THE COURTIERS [shouting fiercely and crowding towards 
Cesar) Away with you. Egypt for the Egyptians! Begone. 

Rufio bites bis beard, too angry to speak. Caesar sits as com- 
fortably as if he were at breakfast, and the cat were clamoring 
for a piece of Finnan-haddie. 

cLeopaATRA. Why do you let them talk to you like that, 
Cesar? Are you afraid? 

c#sar. Why, my dear, what they say is quite true. 

CLEOPATRA. But if you go away, I shall not be Queen. 

c#sar. I shall not go away until you are Queen. 

poTuinus. Achillas: if you are not a fool, you will take 
that girl whilst she is under your hand. 

RuFIO [daring them] Why not take Cesar as well, Achillas? 

POTHINUS [retorting the defiance with interest} Well said, 
Rufio. Why not? 

ruFI0o. Try, Achillas. [Ca/ing] Guard there. 

The loggia immediately fills with Ca@sar’s soldiers, who stand, 
sword in hand, at the top of the steps, waiting the word to charge 
Jrom their centurion, who carries a cudgel. For a moment the 
Egyptians face them proudly: then they retire sullenly to their 
former places. 

BRITANNuS. You are Cesar’s prisoners, all of you. 

c@sar [ benevolently| Ohno, no, no. By no means, Czsar’s 
guests, gentlemen. 

CLEOPATRA. Wont you cut their heads off? 

cesar. What! Cut off your brother’s head? 

CLEOPATRA. Why not? He would cut off mine, if he got 
the chance. Wouldnt you, Ptolemy? 

PTOLEMY [ pale and obstinate| I would. I will, too, when 
I grow up. 

Cleopatra is rent by a struggle between her newly-acquired 
dignity as a queen, and a strong impulse to put out her tongue at 
him. She takes no part in the scene which follows, but watches 


124 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


it with curiosity and wonder, fidgeting with the restlessness of a 
child, and sitting down on Casar’s tripod when he rises. 

POTHINUS. Casar: if you attempt to detain us — 

ruFIo. He will succeed, Egyptian: make up your mind 
to that. We hold the palace, the beach, and the eastern 
harbor. The road to Rome is open; and you shall travel 
it if Caesar chooses. 

cesar [courteously] I could do no less, Pothinus, to secure 
the retreat of my own soldiers. I am accountable for every 
life among them. But you are free to go. So are all here, 
and in the palace. 

ruFIo [aghast at this clemency] What! Renegades and 
all? 

cesar [softening the expression] Roman army of occupa- 
tion and all, Rufio. 

poTuinus [desperately| ‘Then I make a last appeal to 
Cesar’s justice. I shall call a witness to prove that but for 
us, the Roman army of occupation, led by the greatest 
soldier in the world, would now have Cesar at its mercy. 
[Calling through the loggia] Ho, there, Lucius Septimius 
[Cesar starts, deeply moved]: if my voice can reach you, 
come forth and testify before Cesar. 

cmsar [shrinking] No, no. 

THEopotus. Yes, I say. Let the military tribune bear 
witness. 

Lucius Septimius, a clean shaven, trim athlete of about 40, 
with symmetrical features, resolute mouth, and handsome, thin 
Roman nose, in the dress of a Roman officer, comes in through 
the loggia and confronts Cesar, who tides his face with his robe 
for a moment; then, mastering himself, drops it, and confronts 
the tribune with dignity. 

poTuinus. Bear witness, Lucius Septimius. Caesar came 
hither in pursuit of his foe. Did we shelter his foe? 

Lucius. As Pompey’s foot touched the Egyptian shore, 
his head fell by the stroke of my sword. 

THEopoTUs [with viperish relish} Under the eyes of his 
wife and child! Remember that, Cesar! They saw it from 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra L2G 


the ship he had just left. We have given you a full and 
sweet measure of vengeance. 

cmsar [with horror] Vengeance! 

poTHINUS. Our first gift to you, as your galley came into 
the roadstead, was the head of your rival for the empire of 
the world. Bear witness, Lucius Septimius: is it not so? 

Lucius. It is so. With this hand, that slew Pompey, I 
placed his head at the feet of Ceasar. 

cmsar. Murderer! So would you have slain Cesar, had 
Pompey been victorious at Pharsalia. 

Lucius. Woe to the vanquished, Cesar! When I served 
Pompey, I slew as good men as he, only because he con- 
quered them. His turn came at last. 

THEODoTUs [ flatteringly| The deed was not yours, Cesar, 
but ours—-nay, mine; for it was done by my counsel. 
Thanks to us, you keep your reputation for clemency, and 
have your vengeance too. 

cmsar. Vengeance! Vengeance!! Oh, if I could stoop 
to vengeance, what would I not exact from you as the price 
of this murdered man’s blood? [They shrink back, appalled 
and disconcerted|, Was he not my son-in-law, my ancient 
friend, for 20 years the master of great Rome, for 30 years 
the compeller of victory? Did not I, as a Roman, share 
his glory? Was the Fate that forced us to fight for the 
mastery of the world, of our making? Am I Julius Cesar, 
or am I a wolf, that you fling to me the grey head of the 
old soldier, the laurelled conqueror, the mighty Roman, 
treacherously struck down by this callous rufhan, and then 
claim my gratitude for it! [Zo Lucius Septimius] Begone: 
you fill me with horror. 

Lucius [cold and undaunted| Pshaw! You have seen sev- 
ered heads before, Cesar, and severed right hands too, I 
think ; some thousands of them, in Gaul, after you van- 
quished Vercingetorix. Did you spare him, with all your 
clemency? Was that vengeance? 

c#sar. No, by the gods! would that it had been! Ven- 
geance at least is human, No, I say: those severed right 


126 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


hands, and the brave Vercingetorix basely strangled in a 
vault beneath the Capitol, were [wth shuddering satire] a 
Wise severity, a necessary protection to the commonwealth, 
a duty of statesmanship — follies and fictions ten times 
bloodier than honest vengeance! What a fool was I 
then! To think that men’s lives should be at the mercy 
of such fools! [Humb/y] Lucius Septimius, pardon me: 
why should the slayer of Vercingetorix rebuke the 
slayer of Pompey? You are free to go with the rest. 
Or stay if you will: I will find a place for you in my 
service. 

Lucius. The odds are against you, Cesar. I go. [He turas 
to go out through the loggia). 

ruFIO [ full of wrath at seeing his prey escaping | ‘That means 
that he is a Republican. 

Lucius [turning defiantly on the loggia steps| And what are 
you? 
 RurFIo. A Cesarian, like all Cesar’s soldiers. 

czesaR [courteously] Lucius: believe me, Cesar is no 
Cesarian. Were Rome a true republic, then were Cesar 
the first of Republicans. But you have made your choice. 
Farewell. 

Lucius. Farewell. Come, Achillas, whilst there is yet 
time. 

Cesar, seeing that Rufio’s temper threatens to get the worse 
of him, puts his hand on his shoulder and brings him down the 
hall out of harms way, Britannus accompanying them and post- 
ing himself on Cesar’s right hand. This movement brings the 
three in a little group to the place occupied by Achillas, who 
moves haughtily away and joins Theodotus on the other side. 
Lucius Septimius goes out through the soldiers in the loggia. 
Pothinus, Theodotus and Achillas follow him with the courtiers, 
very mistrustful of the soldiers, who close up in their rear and 
go out after them, keeping them moving without much ceremony. 
The King is left in his chair, piteous, obstinate, with twitching 
face and fingers. During these movements Rufio maintains an 
energetic grumbling, as follows:— 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 127 


RUFIO [as Lucius departs] Do you suppose he would let 
us go if he had our heads in his hands? 

cesar. I have no right to suppose that his ways are any 
baser than mine. 

RUFIO. Psha! 

cesar. Rufio: if I take Lucius Septimius for my model, 
and become exactly like him, ceasing to be Cesar, will you 
serve me still? 

BRITANNUS. Cesar: this is not good sense. Your duty 
to Rome demands that her enemies should be prevented 
from doing further mischief. [Csar, whose delight in the 
moral eye-to-business of his British secretary is inexhaustible, 
smiles indulgently|. 

RuFIO. It 1s no use talking to him, Britannus: you may 
save your breath to cool your porridge. But mark this, 
Cesar. Clemency 1s very well for you; but what is it for 
your soldiers, who have to fight to-morrow the men you 
spared yesterday? You may give what orders you please; 
but I tell you that your next victory will be a massacre, 
thanks to your clemency. J, for one, will take no prisoners. 
I will kill my enemies in the field ; and then you can preach 
as much clemency as you please: I shall never have to fight 
them again. And now, with your leave, I will see these 
gentry off the premises. [He turms to go]. 

cesar [turning also and seeing Ptolemy] What! have they 
left the boy alone! Oh shame, shame! | 

RUFIO [taking Ptolemy’s hand and making him rise] Come, 
your majesty ! 

PTOLEMY [to Caesar, drawing away his hand from Rufio] 
Is he turning me out of my palace? 

ruFIO [grimly] You are welcome to stay if you wish. 

cesar [kindly] Go, my boy. I will not harm you; but 
you will be safer away, among your friends. Here you are 
in the lion’s mouth. 

PTOLEMY [turning to go| It is not the lion I fear, but 
[Jooking at Rufio] the jackal. [He goes out through the loggia). 

cA#SAR [laughing approvingly| Brave boy! 


128 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


cLeopaTra [ jealous of Caesar's approbation, calling after 
Ptolemy] Little silly. You think that very clever. 

cvesar. Britannus: attend the King. Give him in charge 
to that Pothinus fellow. [Britannus goes out after Ptolemy). 

RuFI0 [ pointing to Cleopatra] And this piece of goods? 
What is to be done with her? However, I suppose I may 
leave that to you. [He goes out through the loggia). 

cLeopaTrRa [ flushing suddenly and turning on Caesar| Did 
you mean me to go with the rest? 

cmsar [a Little preoccupied, goes with a sigh to Ptolemy’s 
chair, whilst she waits for his answer with red cheeks and 
clenched fists! You are free to do just as you please, Cleo- 
patra. 

CLEOPATRA. Then you do not care whether [ stay or 
not? 

cesar [smiling] Of course I had rather you stayed. 

cLEoPpATRA. Much, much rather? 

cesar [nodding| Much, much rather. 

cleopatra. Then I consent to stay, because I am asked. 
But I do not want to, mind. 

c@sar. That is quite understood. [Ca//ing] Totateeta. 

Ftatateeta, still seated, turns her eyes on him with a sinister 
expression, but does not move. 

cLEopATRA [with a splutter of laughter| Her name is not 
Totateeta: itis Ftatateeta. [Ca/ing] Ftatateeta. [Frata- 
teeta instantly rises and comes to Cleopatra). 

c#sar [stumbling over the name] 'Tfatafeeta will forgive 
the erring tongue of a Roman. ‘Tota: the Queen will hold 
her state here in Alexandria. Engage women to attend 
upon her; and do all that is needful. 

FTATATEETA. Am I then the mistress of the Queen’s 
household? 

cLEopaTRa [sharp/y] No: Jam the mistress of the Queen’s 
household. Go and do as you are told, or I will have you 
thrown into the Nile this very afternoon, to poison the 
poor crocodiles. 

c#sar [shocked | Oh no, no. 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 129 


CLEOPATRA. Oh yes, yes. You are very sentimental, 
Cesar; but you are clever; and if you do as I tell you, 
you will soon learn to govern. 

Cesar, quite dumbfounded by this impertinence, turns in his 
chair and stares at her. 

Ftatateeta, smiling grimly, and showing a splendid set of 
teeth, goes, leaving them alone together. 

cesar. Cleopatra: I really think I must eat you, after all. 

CLEOPATRA [Aveeling beside him and looking at him with 
eager interest, half real, half affected to shew how intelligent 
ste is} You must not talk to me now as if I were a child. 

c#saR. You have been growing up since the sphinx in- 
troduced us the other night; and you think you know more 
than I do already. 

CLEOPATRA [taken down, and anxious to justify herself | No: 
that would be very silly of me: of course I know that. 
But — [suddenly] are you angry with me? 

csar. No. 

CLEOPATRA [only half believing ¢im| Then why are you 
so thoughtful? 

cesar [rising] I have work to do, Cleopatra. 

CLEOPATRA [drawing back| Work! [Offended] You are 
tired of talking to me; and that is your excuse to get away 
from me. 

CESAR [sitting down again to appease her] Well, well: 
another minute. But then — work! 

CLEOPATRA. Work! what nonsense! You must remember 
that you are a king now: I have made you one. Kings dont 
work, 

c#saR. Oh! Who told you that, little kitten? Eh? 

CLEOPATRA. My father was King of Egypt; and he never 
worked. But he was a great king, and cut off my sister’s 
head because she rebelled against him and took the throne 
from him. 

csaR. Well; and how did he get his throne back 
again? 

cLeopaTRA [eagerly, fer eyes lighting up] I will tell you, 

K 


130 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


A beautiful young man, with strong round arms, came 
over the desert with many horsemen, and slew my 
sisters husband and gave my father back his throne. 
[Wistfully] 1 was only twelve then. Oh, I wish he would 
come again, now that I] am a queen. I would make him 
my husband. 

cmsar. It might be managed, perhaps; for it was I who 
sent that beautiful young man to help your father. 

CLEOPATRA [ezraptured | You know him! 

cesar [nwodding| I do. 

CLEOPATRA. Has he come with you? [Cesar shakes his 
head: she is cruelly disappointed|. Oh, I wish he had, I wish 
he had. If only I werea little older; so that he might not 
think me a mere kitten, as you do! But perhaps that is be- 
cause you are old. He is many many years younger than 
you, is he not? 

c#sar [as if swallowing a pill| He is somewhat younger. 

CLEOPATRA. Would he be my husband, do you think, if 
T asked him? 

c#sar. Very likely. 

CLEOPATRA. But I should not like to ask him. Could you 
not persuade him to ask me—without knowing that I 
wanted him to? 

c#sar [touched by her innocence of the beautiful young man’s 
character} My poor child! 

CLEOPATRA. Why do you say that as if you were sorry 
forme? Does he love anyone else? 

cesar. I am afraid so. 

cLeopaTrRa [fearfully] 'Then I shall not be his first love. 

c#sar. Not quite the first. He is greatly admired by 
women. 

CLEOPATRA. I wish I could be the first. But if he loves 
me, I will make him kill all the rest. Tell me: 1s he still 
beautiful? Do his strong round arms shine in the sun like 
marble? 

cmsar. He is in excellent condition — considering how 
much he eats and drinks. 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra Pa 


CLEOPATRA. Oh, you must not say common, earthly 
things about him; for J love him. He is a god. 

c@saR. He is a great captain of horsemen, and swifter 
of foot than any other Roman. 

CLEOPATRA. What is his real name? 

czSAR [ puzzled| His real name? 

CLEOPATRA. Yes. I always call him Horus, because 
Horus is the most beautiful of our gods. But I want to know 
his real name. 

cesar. His name is Mark Antony. 

CLEOPATRA [ 7usically | Mark Antony, Mark Antony, Mark 
Antony! What a beautiful name! [S+4e throws her arms 
round Gesar’s neck]. Oh, how I love you for sending 
him to help my father! Did you love my father very 
much? 

cesar. No, my child; but your father, as you say, never 
worked. I always work. So when he lost his crown he had 
to promise me 16,000 talents to get it back for him. 

CLEOPATRA. Did he ever pay you? 

czesar. Not in full. 

CLEOPATRA. He was quite right: it was too dear. The 
whole world is not worth 16,000 talents. 

cesar. That is perhaps true, Cleopatra. Those Egyp- 
tians who work paid as much of it as he could drag from 
them. The rest is still due. But as I most likely shall not 
get it, I must go back to my work. So you must run away 
for a little and send my secretary to me. 

CLEOPATRA [coaxing] No: I want to stay and hear you 
talk about Mark Antony. 

c@sar. But if I do not get to work, Pothinus and the 
rest of them will cut us off from the harbor; and then the 
way from Rome will be blocked. 

CLEOPATRA. No matter: |] dont want you to go back to 
Rome. 

c#saR. But you want Mark Antony to come from it. 

CLEOPATRA [springing up| Oh yes, yes, yes: I forgot. Go 
quickly and work, Cesar ; and keep the way over the sea 


132 Three Plays for Puritans — Act Il 


open for my Mark Antony. [S4e runs out through the loggia, 
hissing her hand to Mark Antony across the sea). 

cesar [ going briskly up the middle of the hall to the loggia 
steps| Ho, Britannus. [He is startled by the entry of a 
wounded Roman soldier, who confronts him from the upper step). 
What now? 

SOLDIER [ pointing to his bandaged tead| This, Cesar; and 
two of my comrades killed in the market place. 

cesar [guiet, but attending) Ay. Why? 

soLpiER. There is an army come to Alexandria, calling 
itself the Roman army. 

c#sar. The Roman army of occupation. Ay? 

SOLDIER. Commanded by one Achillas. 

CESAR. Well? 

soLpIER. ‘The citizens rose against us when the army 
entered the gates. I was with two others in the market 
place when the news came. They set upon us. I cut my 
way out; and here I am. 

c#sar. Good. I am glad tosee you alive. [Rufio enters 
the loggia hastily, passing behind the soldier to look out through 
one of the arches at the quay beneath}. Rufio: we are be- 
sieged, 

ruFIo. What! Already? 

c@sar. Now or to-morrow : what does it matter? We 
shall be besieged. 

Britannus runs in. 

BRITANNUS. Caesar — 

c#saR [anticipating him] Yes: I know. [Rafio and 
Britannus come down the hall from the loggia at opposite sides, 
past Casar, who waits for a moment near the step to say to the 
soldier| Comrade: give the word to turn out on the beach 
and stand by the boats. Get your wound attended to. Go. 
[ The soldier hurries out. Caesar comes down the hall between 
Rufio and Britannus] Rufio: we have some ships in the 
west harbor. Burn them. 

RuFio [starizg] Burn them !! 

cmsar. Take every boat we have in the east harbor, 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 133 


and seize the Pharos—that island with the lighthouse. 
Leave half our men behind to hold the beach and the quay 
outside this palace: that is the way home. 

RUFIO [disapproving strongly] Are we to give up the city? 

c#sar. We have not got it, Rufio. This palace we 
have; and — what is that building next door? 

ruFIo. The theatre. # 

c#sar. We will have that too: it commands the strand. 
For the rest, Egypt for the Egyptians! 

ruFIO. Well, you know best, I suppose. Is that all? 

c@saR. That is all. Are those ships burnt yet? 

RuUFIO. Be easy: I shall waste no more time. [He runs 
Out}. 

ee Cesar: Pothinus demands speech of you. 
In my opinion he needs a lesson. His manner is most in- 
solent. 

c#=saR. Where is he? 

BRITANNUS. He waits without. 

casaR. Ho there! admit Pothinus. 

Pothinus appears in the loggia, and comes down the hall very 
haughtily to Cesar’s left hand. 

cesar. Well, Pothinus ? 

potruinus. I have brought you our ultimatum, Cesar. 

cz#sar. Ultimatum! The door was open: you should 
have gone out through it before you declared war. You are 
my prisoner now. [He goes to the chair and loosens his toga]. 

PoTHINUS [scornfully] I your prisoner! Do you know 
that you are in Alexandria, and that King Ptolemy, with 
an army outnumbering your little troop a hundred to one, 
is in possession of Alexandria? 

C@SAR [unconcernedly taking off his toga and throwing it on 
the chair} Well, my friend, get out if you can. And tell 
your fricnds not to kill any more Romans in the market 
place. Otherwise my soldiers, who do not share my cele- 
brated clemency, will probably kill you. Britannus: pass 
the word to the guard; and fetch my armor. [Britannus 
runs out. Rufio returns]. Well? 


134 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


ruFIo [ pointing from the loggia to a cloud of smoke drifting 
over the harbor] See there! [Pothinus runs eagerly up the 
steps to look out). 

cesar. What, ablaze already! Impossible ! 

ruFio. Yes, five good ships, and a barge laden with oil 
grappled to each. But it is not my doing: the Egyptians 
have saved me the trouble. They have captured the west 
harbor. 

cesar [anxiously] And the east harbor? The light- 
house, Rufio? 

RuFIO [with a sudden splutter of raging ill usage, coming down 
to Caesar and scolding him] Can 1 embark a legion in five 
minutes? The first cohort is already on the beach. We 
can do no more. If you want faster work, come and do it 
yourself. 

cmsar [soothing him] Good, good. Patience, Rufio, 
patience. 

ruFi0. Patience! Who is impatient here, you or [? 
Would I be here, if I could not oversee them from that 
balcony? 

cesar. Forgive me, Rufio; and [amxiously] hurry them 
as much as — 

He is interrupted by an outcry as of an old man in the ex- 
tremity of misfortune. It draws near rapidly; and Theodotus 
rushes in, tearing his hair, and squeaking the most lamentable 
exclamations. Rufio steps back to stare at him, amazed at his 
frantic condition. Pothinus turns to listen. 

THEODOTUSs [97 the steps, with uplifted arms] Horror un- 
speakable! Woe, alas! Help! 

RUFIO. What now? 

caesar [ frowning] Who is slain? 

rHEopotus. Slain! Oh, worse than the death of ten 
thousand men! Loss irreparable to mankind! 

ruFIO. What has happened, man? 

THEoDoTus [rushing down the hall between them] The fire 
has spread from your ships. The first of the seven wonders 
of the world perishes. The library of Alexandria isin flames. 


Act I Cesar and Cleopatra es 


ruFIO. Psha! [Quite relieved, he goes up to the loggia and 
watches the preparations of the troops on the beach]. 

ca@sar. Is that all? 

THEODOTUs [unable to believe fis senses] All! Cesar: will 
you go down to posterity as a barbarous soldier too ignorant 
to know the value of books? 

caesar. Theodotus: I am an author myself; and I tell 
you it is better that the Egyptians should live their lives 
than dream them away with the help of books. 

THEODOTUs [kweeling, with genuine literary emotion: the 
passion of the pedant| Cesar: once in ten generations of 
men, the world gains an immortal book. 

cesar [inflexible] If it did not flatter mankind, the 
common executioner would burn it. 

THEODOTUS. Without history, death will lay you beside 
your meanest soldier. 

c#sar. Death will do that in any case. I ask no better 
grave. 

THEODOTUs. What is burning there is the memory of 
mankind. 

c@sar. A shameful memory. Let it burn. 

THEODOTUs [zi/d/y] Will you destroy the past? 

czsar. Ay, and build the future with its ruins. [7 4eo- 
dotus, in despair, strikes himself on the temples with his fists). 
But harken, Theodotus, teacher of kings: you who valued 
Pompey’s head no more than a shepherd values an onion, 
and who now kneel to me, with tears in your old eyes, to 
plead for a few sheepskins scrawled with errors. I can- 
not spare you a man ora bucket of water just now; but 
you shall pass freely out of the palace. Now, away with 
you to Achillas ; and borrow his legions to put out the fire. 
[He hurries him to the steps). 

POTHINUS [significantly] You understand, Theodotus : I 
remain a prisoner. 

THEODoTus. A prisoner! 

c#sar. Will you stay to talk whilst the memory of 
mankind is burning? [Cadling through the loggia) Ho 


1 36 Three Plays for Puritans — Act II 


there! Pass Theodotus out. [Zo Theodotus] Away with 
you. 

THEODOTUSs [Zo Pothinus] 1 must go to save the library. 
[He furries out]. 

cesar. Follow him to the gate, Pothinus. Bid him 
urge your people to kill no more of my soldiers, for your 
sake. 

poTHinus. My life will cost you dear if you take it, 
Cesar. [He goes out after Theodotus}. 

Rufio, absorbed in watching the embarkation, does not notice 
the departure of the two Egyptians. 

RuFIO [shouting from the loggia to the beach] All ready. 
Chere: 

A CENTURION [ from below] All ready. We wait for 
Cesar. 

. cvesaR. Tell them Czsar is coming—the rogues! 
[Ca/ing] Britannicus. [Tis magniloquent version of fis 
secretary's name is one of Cesar’s jokes. In later years it 
would have meant, quite seriously and officially, Conqueror of 
Britain). 

RUFIO [calling down] Push off, all except the longboat. 
Stand by it to embark, Cesar’s guard there. [He /eaves the 
balcony and comes down into the hall|. Where are those 
Egyptians? Is this more clemency? Have you let them go? 

cesar [chuckling] I have let 'Theodotus go to save the 
library. We must respect literature, Rufio. 

ruFIO [raging] Folly on folly’s head! I believe if you 
could bring back all the dead of Spain, Gaul and Thessaly 
to life, you would do it that we might have the trouble of 
fighting them over again. 

cesar. Might not the gods destroy the world if their 
only thought were to be at peace next year? [ Rufio, out of 
all patience, turns away in anger. Ceasar suddenly grips his 
sleeve, and adds slyly in his ear] Besides, my friend: every 
Egyptian we imprison means imprisoning two Roman sol- 
diers to guard him. Eh? 

ruFIo. Agh! I might have known there was some fox’s 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra P27 


trick behind your fine talking. [He gets away from Cesar 
with an ill-humored shrug, and goes to the balcony for another 
look at the preparations; finally goes out}. 

csar. Is Britannus asleep? I sent him for my armor 
an hour ago. [Ca//ing] Britannicus, thou British islander. 
Britannicus! 

Cleopatra runs in through the loggia with Casar’s helmet 
and sword, snatched from Britannus, who follows her with a 
cuirass and greaves. They come down to Caesar, she to his left 
hand, Britannus to his right. 

CLEOPATRA. I am going to dress you, Cesar. Sit down. 
[He obeys}. ‘These Roman helmets are so becoming! [S/e 
takes off tis wreath]. Oh! [Se bursts out laughing at him), 

cesar. What are you laughing at? 

CLEOPATRA. Youre bald [deginning with a big B, and end- 
ing with a splutter|. 

c#ESAR [almost annoyed| Cleopatra! [He rises, for the 
convenience of Britannus, who puts the cuirass on him). 

CLEOPATRA. So that is why you wear the wreath—to 
hide it. 

BRITANNUS. Peace, Egyptian: they are the bays of the. 
conqueror. [He buckles the cutrass}. 

CLEOPATRA. Peace, thou: islander! [Zo Cesar] You 
should rub your head with strong spirits of sugar, Cesar. 
That will make it grow. 

CESAR [with a wry face} Cleopatra: do you like to be 
reminded that you are very young? 

CLEOPATRA | pouting] No. 

CESAR [sitting down again, and setting out his leg for 
Britannus, who kneels to put on his greaves| Neither do I 
like to be reminded that J am — middle aged. Let me give 
you ten of my superfluous years, ‘That will make you 26, 
and leave me only —no matter. Is it a bargain? 

CLEOPATRA. Agreed. 26, mind. [She puts the helmet on 
kim]. Oh! How nice! You look only about §0 in it! 

BRITANNUS [/ooking up severely at Cleopatra) You must 
not speak in this manner to Casar, 


138 Three Plays for Puritans — Act II 


CLEOPATRA. Is it true that when Cesar caught you on 
that island, you were painted all over blue? 

BRiTaNNUS. Blue is the color worn by all Britons of 
good standing. In war we stain our bodies blue; so that 
though our enemies may strip us of our clothes and our 
lives, they cannot strip us of our respectability. [He rises]. 

cLeopaTra [with Cesar’s sword] Let me hang this on. 
Now you look splendid. Have they made any statues of 
you in Rome? 

cesar. Yes, many statues. 

CLEOPATRA. You must send for one and give it to me. 

ruFIo [coming back into the loggia, more impatient than ever | 
Now Cesar: have you done talking? ‘The moment your 
foot is aboard there will be no holding our men back: the 
boats will race one another for the lighthouse. 

cesar [drawing his sword and trying the edge] Is this 
well set to-day, Britannicus? At Pharsalia it was as blunt 
as a barrel-hoop. 

BRITANNUuS. It will split one of the Egyptian’s hairs 
to-day, Cesar. I have set it myself. 

CLEOPATRA [suddenly throwing her arms in terror round 
Cesar] Oh, you are not really going into battle to be 
killed? 

c#sar. No, Cleopatra. No man goes to battle to be 
killed. 

CLEOPATRA. But they do get killed. My sister’s husband 
was killed in battle. You must not go. Let him go[ pointing 
to Rufio. They all laugh at her}. Oh please, please dont go. 
What will happen to me if you never come back? 

cesar [gravely] Are you afraid? 

cleopatra [shrinxking| No. 

cmSaR [with quiet authority] Go to the balcony ; and you 
shall see us take the Pharos. You must learn to look on 
battles. Go. [S#e goes, downcast, and looks out from the 
balcony}. That is well. Now, Rufio. March. 

cLeopaTra [suddenly clapping Ler hands] Oh, you will not 
be able to go! | 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 139 


cesar. Why? What now? 

CLEOPATRA. ‘They are drying up the harbor with 
buckets—a multitude of soldiers—over there [ pointing out 
across the sea to her left|—-they are dipping up the water. 

RuFIO [Aastening to look] It is true. The Egyptian army ! 
Crawling over the edge of the west harbor like locusts. 
[With sudden anger he strides down to Cesar]. This is your 
accursed clemency, Cesar. Theodotus has brought them. 

c@sar [delighted at his own cleverness] I meant him to, 
Rufio. They have come to put out the fire. The library 
will keep them busy whilst we seize the lighthouse. Eh? 
[He rushes out buoyantly through the loggia, followed by 
Britannus}. 

RuFIO [disgustedly| More foxing! Agh! [He rushes of. 
A shout from the soldiers announces the appearance of Ceasar 
below). 

cenTuRION [Jde/ow] All aboard. Give way there. 
[ Another shout]. 

CLEOPATRA [waving fer scarf through the loggia arch] 
Goodbye, goodbye, dear Casar. Come back safe. Good- 
bye! 


ACT III 


The edge of the quay in front of the palace, looking out west 
over the east harbor of Alexandria to Pharos island, just off 
the end of which, and connected with it by a narrow mole, is the 
famous lighthouse, a gigantic square tower of white marble 
diminishing in size storey by storey to the top, on which stands a 
cresset beacon. The island is joined to the main land by the 
Heptastadium, a great mole or causeway five miles long bound- 
ing the harbor on the south. 

In the middle of the quay a Roman sentinel stands on guard, 
pilum in hand, looking out to the lighthouse with strained atten- 
tion, his left hand shading his eyes. The pilum is a stout wooden 
shaft 44, feet long, with an iron spit about three feet long fixed 
in it. The sentinel is so absorbed that he does not notice the 
approach from the north end of the quay of four Egyptian 
market porters carrying rolls of carpet, preceded by Ftatateeta 
and Apollodorus the Sicilian. Apollodorus is a dashing young 
man of about 24, handsome and debonair, dressed with deliberate 
estheticism in the most delicate purples and dove greys, with 
ornaments of bronze, oxydized silver, and stones of jade and 
agate. His sword, designed as carefully as a medieval cross, 
has a blued blade showing through an openwork scabbard of 
purple leather and filagree. The porters, conducted by Ftata- 
teeta, pass along the quay behind the sentinel to the steps of the 
palace, where they put down their bales and squat on the ground. 
Apollodorus does not pass along with them: te halts, amused by 
the preoccupation of the sentinel. 


Oe 


oe 


2 
oe 





f 4 
ftlt Ft - 


Walker Cockrocl, 


~ SS 
Le eo 
~ 
She 2 
eae ene 
ee 
NaN 
et 
a w 
ot ~ 
7 A 
ca 
~ \ 
™ Ny 
C> 
5 < 
~ 
Oy j 
aw 
NOTES 
Ls r 
~ Nid 
X 
“SS 
w 
< 
> 
~ 
~ 


J J? 
ators of Me 


? 


Cc 


> 
S fp 
> 2 
a mosatc tn the Church of 


4 


“? 
7é. 


c 


> 


&. 


DP 


cre 


h 


? 


2 


LC. 


ch. 


(O00 


j 


r 


re 


MU 


GD re ph by a 


C 


2 


ole 


A 


co 


“ 


Cettl AG 


/ 


Act ITI Cesar and Cleopatra 141 


APOLLODORUs [calling to the sentinel] Who goes there, eh? 

SENTINEL [starting violently and turning with his pilum at 
the charge, revealing himself as a small, wiry, sandy-haired, 
conscientious young man with an elderly face} Whats this? 
Stand. Who are you? 

aPOLLoporus. I am Apollodorus the Sicilian. Why, man, 
what are you dreaming of? Since I came through the lines 
beyond the theatre there, I have brought my caravan past 
three sentinels, all so busy staring at the lighthouse that 
not one of them challenged me. Is this Roman dis- 
cipline? 

SENTINEL. We are not here to watch the land but the 
sea. Cesar has just landed on the Pharos. [Looking at 
Ftatateeta] What have you here? Who is this piece of 
Egyptian crockery? 

FraTaTEETA. Apollodorus: rebuke this Roman dog; and 
bid him bridle his tongue in the presence of Ftatateeta, the 
mistress of the Oueen’s household. 

APOLLoDoRUus. My friend: this is a great lady, who stands 
high with Cesar. 

SENTINEL [wot at all impressed, pointing to the carpets] And 
what is all this truck? 

APOLLODORUs. Carpets for the furnishing of the Qucen’s 
apartments in the palace. I have picked them from the best 
carpets in the world; and the Queen shall choose the best 
of my choosing. 

SENTINEL. So you are the carpet merchant? 

apoLLoporus [4urt] My friend: I am a patrician. 

SENTINEL. A patrician! A patrician keeping a shop in- 
stead of following arms! 

APOLLoDoRUus. I do not keep a shop. Mine is a temple of 
the arts. I am a worshipper of beauty. My calling is to 
choose beautiful things for beautiful queens. My motto is 
Art for Art’s sake. 

SENTINEL. ‘That is not the password. 

APOLLODORUS. It is a universal password. 

SENTINEL. I know nothing about universal passwords. 


142 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


Either give me the password for the day or get back to your 
shop. 

Ftatateeta, roused by his hostile tone, steals towards the edge 
of the quay with the step of a panther, and gets behind him. 

APOLLopoRus. How if I do neither? 

SENTINEL. Then I will drive this pilum through you. 

APOLLopoRUus. At your service, my friend. [He draws his 
sword, and springs to his guard with unruffied grace). 

FTATATEETA [suddenly seizing the sentinel’s arms from be- 
hind| Thrust your knife into the dog’s throat, Apollodorus. 
[The chivalrous Apollodorus laughingly shakes his head; breaks 
ground away from the sentinel towards the palace; and lowers 
his point). 

SENTINEL [struggling vainly) Curse on you! Let me go. 
Help ho! 

FTATATEETA [lifting him from the ground] Stab the little 
Roman reptile. Spit him on your sword. 

A couple of Roman soldiers, with a centurion, come running 
along the edge of the quay from the north end. They rescue 
their comrade, and throw off Ftatateeta, who is sent reeling 
away on the left hand of the sentinel. 

CENTURION [an unattractive man of fifty, short in his speech 
and manners, with a vinewood cudgel in tis hand| How now? 
What is all this? 

FTATATEETA [to Apollodorus| Why did you not stab him? 
There was time! 

APOLLODORus. Centurion: I am here by order of the 
Queen to — 

CENTURION [interrupting tim] The Queen! Yes, yes: [to 
the sentine/\ pass him in. Pass all these bazaar people in 
to the Queen, with their goods. But mind you pass no one 
out that you have not passed in — not even the Queen her- 
self. 

SENTINEL. his old woman is dangerous: she is as strong 
as three men. She wanted the merchant to stab me. 

APOLLoporus. Centurion: Tam not amerchant. I am a 
patrician and a votary of art. 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 143 


cenTurIon. Is the woman your wife? 

APOLLODORUS [4orrifed| No, no! [Correcting himself 
politely) Not that the lady is not a striking figure in her 
own way. But [emphatically] she is not my wife. 

FTATATEETA [to the centurion) Roman: I am Ftatateeta, 
the mistress of the Queen’s household. 

CENTURION. Keep your hands off our men, mistress; or 
I will have you pitched into the harbor, though you were 
as strong as ten men. [70 Ais men] To your posts: march! 
[He returns with his men the way they came). 

FTATATEETA [looking malignantly after him| We shall see 
whom Isis loves best: her servant Ftatateeta or a dog of a 
Roman. 

SENTINEL [40 Apollodorus, with a wave of his pilum towards 
the palace| Pass in there; and keep your distance. [Turn- 
ing to Ftatateeta| Come within a yard of me, you old croco- 
dile ; and I will give you this [¢4e pi/um] in your jaws. 

CLEOPATRA [calling from the palace| Ftatateeta, Ftatatecta. 

FTATATEETA | ooking up, scandalized | Go from the window, 
go from the window. There are men here. 

CLEOPATRA. J am coming down. 

FTATATEETA [distracted | No, no. What are you dreaming 
of? O ye gods, ye gods! Apollodorus: bid your men pick 
up your bales; and in with me quickly. 

APOLLODoRUS. Obey the mistress of the Queen’s household. 

FTATATEETA [/mpatiently, as the porters stoop to lift the bales] 
Quick, quick: she will be out upon us. [C/eopatra comes 
from the palace and runs across the quay to Ftatateeta|. Oh 
that ever I was born! 

CLEOPATRA [eager/y] Ftatateeta: I have thought of some- 
thing. I want a boat — at once. 

FTATATEETA. A boat! No, no: youcannot. Apollodorus: 
speak to the Queen. 

APOLLoDoRUS [ga/lantly| Beautiful queen: I am Apollo- 
dorus the Sicilian, your servant, from the bazaar. I have 
brought you the three most beautiful Persian carpets in the 
world to choose from. 


144 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


CLEOPATRA. I have no time for carpets to-day. Get me 
a boat. 

FTATATEETA. What whim is this? You cannot go on the 
water except in the royal barge. 

APOLLODoRUS. Royalty, Ftatateeta, lies not in the barge 
but in the Queen. [Zo Cleopatra] The touch of your 
majesty’s foot on the gunwale of the meanest boat in 
the harbor will make it royal. [He turns to the harbor 
and calls seaward| Ho there, boatman! Pull in to the 
steps. 

See Apollodorus: you are my perfect knight; 
and I will always buy my carpets through you. [/4po//o- 
dorus bows joyously. An oar appears above the quay; and the 
boatman, a bullet-headed, vivacious, grinning fellow, burnt al- 
most black by the sun, comes up a flight of steps from the water 
on the sentinel’s right, oar in hand, and waits at the top|. Can 
you row, Apollodorus? 

APOLLODoRus. My oars shall be your majesty’s wings. 
Whither shall I row my Queen? 

CLEOPATRA. To the lighthouse. Come. [ S4e makes for the 
steps]. 

SENTINEL [opposing her with his pilum at the charge| Stand. 
You cannot pass. 

CLEOPATRA [ flushing angrily| How dare you? Do you 
know that I am the Queen? 

SENTINEL. 1 have my orders. You cannot pass. 

CLEOPATRA. I will make Cesar have you killed if you do 
not obey me. 

SENTINEL. He will do worse to me if I disobey my officer. 
Stand back. 

CLEOPATRA. Ftatateeta: strangle him. 

SENTINEL [alarmed — looking apprehensively at Ftatateeta, 
and brandishing his pilum| Keep off, there. 

CLEOPATRA [running to Apollodorus} Apollodorus: make 
your slaves help us. 

APOLLopoRus. I shall not need their help, lady. [He 
draws his sword |. Now, soldier: choose which weapon you 


Act III Cesar and Cleopatra i4¢ 


will defend yourself with. Shall it be sword against pilum, 
or sword against sword? 

SENTINEL. Roman against Sicilian, curse you. Take that. 
[He Aurls his pilum at Apollodorus, who drops expertly on one 
knee. The pilum passes whizzing over his head and falls harmless. 
Apollodorus, with a cry of triumph, springs up and attacks the 
sentinel, who draws his sword and defends himself, crying) Ho 
there, guard. Help! 

Cleopatra, half frightened, half delighted, takes refuge near 
the palace, where the porters are squatting among the bales, 
The boatman, alarmed, hurries down the steps out of harm's 
way, but stops, with his head just visible above the edge of the 
quay, to watch the fight. The sentinel is handicapped by his fear 
of an attack in the rear from Ftatateeta. His swordsmanship, 
which is of a rough and ready sort, is heavily taxed, as he has 
occasionally to strike at her to keep her off between a blow and 
a guard with Apollodorus. The centurion returns with several 
soldiers. Apollodorus springs back towards Cleopatra as this 
reinforcement confronts him. 

CENTURION [coming to the sentinels right hand| What is 
this? What now? 

SENTINEL [ panting] I could do well enough by myself if 
it werent for the old woman. Keep her off me: that is all 
the help I need. 

centurion. Make your report, soldier, What has hap- 
pened? 

FTATATEETA. Centurion: he would have slain the 
Queen. 

SENTINEL [ 4/uutly] I would, sooner than let her pass. 
She wanted to take boat, and go—so she said —to the 
lighthouse. I stopped her, as I was ordered to; and she set 
this fellow on me. [He goes to pick up Fis pilum and returns 
to is place with it]. 

CENTURION [turning to Cleopatra| Cleopatra: Iam loth to 
offend you; but without Cesar’s express order we dare not 
let you pass beyond the Roman lines. 

APOLLopoRUS. Well, Centurion; and has not the light- 

L 


146 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


house been within the Roman lines since Cesar landed 
there? 

CLEOPATRA. Yes, yes. Answer that, if you can. 

centurion [#0 Apollodorus| As for you, Apollodorus, you 
may thank the gods that you are not nailed to the palace 
door with a pilum for your meddling. 

APOLLoporus [wrbanely] My military friend, I was not 
born to be slain by so ugly a weapon. When I fall, it will 
be [Aolding up his sword] by this white queen of arms, the 
only weapon fit for an artist. And now that you are con- 
vinced that we do not want to go beyond the lines, let me 
finish killing your sentinel and depart with the Queen. 

centurion [as the sentinel makes an angry demonstration | 
Peace there. Cleopatra: I must abide by my orders, and 
not by the subtleties of this Sicilian. You must withdraw 
into the palace and examine your carpets there. 

cLeopaTra [ pouting] Iwill not: lam the Queen. Cesar 
does not speak to me as you do. Have Cesar’s centurions 
changed manners with his scullions? 

centurion [sa/kily] I do my duty. That is enough for 
me. 

APOLLoDoRus. Majesty: when a stupid man is doing 
something he is ashamed of, he always declares that it is 
his duty. 

CENTURION [azgry] Apollodorus — 

APOLLODORUs [ivterrupting him with defiant elegance| I will 
make amends for that insult with my sword at fitting time 
and place. Who says artist, says duellist. [Zo Cleopatra] 
Hear my counsel, star of the east. Until word comes to 
these soldiers from Czsar himself, you are a prisoner. Let 
me go to him with a message from you, and a present; and 
before the sun has stooped half way to the arms of the sea, 
I will bring you back Cesar’s order of release. 

CENTURION [sneering at him] And you will sell the Queen 
the present, no doubt. 

APOLLODORUs. Centurion: the Queen shall have from me, 
without payment, as the unforced tribute of Sicilian taste 


Act III Cesar and Cleopatra 147 


to Egyptian beauty, the richest of these carpets for her 
present to Cesar. 

cLeopatra [exultantly, to the centurion] Now you see 
what an ignorant common creature you are! 

CENTURION [curtly] Well, a fool and his wares are soon 
parted. [He turns to his men]. ‘Two more men to this post 
here; and see that no one leaves the palace but this man 
and his merchandize. If he draws his sword again inside 
the lines, kill him. To your posts. March. 

He goes out, leaving two auxiliary sentinels with the other. 

APOLLODORUs [with polite goodfellowship| My friends: will 
you not enter the palace and bury our quarrel in a bowl of 
wine? [He takes out his purse, jingling the coins in it). The 
Queen has presents for you all. 

SENTINEL [very su/ky] You heard our orders. Get about 
your business. 

FIRST AUXILIARY. Yes: you ought to know better. Off 
with you. 

SECOND AUXILIARY [looking longingly at the purse — this 
sentinel is a hooknosed man, unlike his comrade, who is squab 
faced Do not tantalize a poor man. 

APOLLoDoRUs [to C/eopatra] Pearl of Queens: the cen- 
turion is at hand; and the Roman soldier is incorruptible 
when his officer is looking. I must carry your word to Cesar. 

CLEOPATRA [zhao has been meditating among the carpets) Are 
these carpets very heavy? 

APOLLODORUs. It matters not how heavy. There are 
plenty of porters. 

cLEoPATRA. How do they put the carpets into boats? 
Do they throw them down? 

APOLLODoRUuS. Not into small boats, majesty. It would 
sink them. 

cLEoPATRA. Not into that man’s boat, for instance? 
[ pointing to the boatman). 

apoLLoporus. No. Too small. 

CLEOPATRA. But you can take a carpet to Cesar in it if 
I send one? 


148 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II] 


APOLLODoRus. Assuredly. 

cLeopaTra. And you will have it carried gently down 
the steps and take great care of it? 

APOLLoDORUs. Depend on me. 

CLEOPATRA. Great, great care? 

ApoLLoporus. More than of my own body. 

CLEOPATRA. You will promise me not to let the porters 
drop it or throw it about? 

APOLLODORUS. Place the most delicate glass goblet in the 
palace in the heart of the roll, Queen; and if it be broken, 
my head shall pay for it. 

CLEOPATRA. Good. Come, Ftatateeta. [Fratateeta comes 
to her. Apollodorus offers to squire them into the palace}. No, 
Apollodorus, you must not come. I will choose a carpet for 
myself. You must wait here. [S4e runs into the palace]. 

APOLLopvoRUus [fo the porters] Follow this lady [indicating 
Ftatateeta|; and obey her. 

The porters rise and take up their bales. 

FTATATEETA [addressing the porters as if they were vermin] 
This way. And take your shoes off before you put your feet 
on those stairs. 

She goes in, followed by the porters with the carpets. Mean- 
while Apollodorus goes to the edge of the quay and looks out over 
the harbor. The sentinels keep their eyes on him malignantly. 

APOLLODoRUs [addressing the sentinel] My friend — 

SENTINEL [rade/y| Silence there. 

FIRST AUXILIARY. Shut your muzzle, you. 

SECOND AUXILIARY [in a@ half whisper, glancing apprehen- 
sively towards the north end of the quay] Cant you wait a 
bit? 

APOLLODoRUus. Patience, worthy three-headed donkey. 
[They mutter ferociously; but he is not at all intimidated}. 
Listen: were you set here to watch me, or to watch the 
Egyptians? 

SENTINEL. We know our duty. 

APOLLoDoRUus. Then why dont you do it? There is some- 
thing going on over there | poiuting southwestward to the mole). 


Act III Cesar and Cleopatra 149 


SENTINEL [sx/ki/y] I do not need to be told what to do 
by the like of you. 

APOLLODORUS. Blockhead. [ He begins shouting] Ho there, 
Centurion. Hoiho! 

SENTINEL. Curse your meddling. [Shouting] Hoiho! 
Alarm! Alarm! 

FIRST AND SECOND auUxiLiariEs. Alarm! alarm! Hoiho! 

The Centurion comes running in with his guard. 

CENTURION. What now? Has the old woman attacked 
you again? [Seeing Apollodorus| Are you here still? 

APOLLODORUS [ pointing as before] See there. The Egyp- 
tians are moving. They are going to recapture the Pharos. 
They will attack by sea and land: by land along the great 
mole ; by sea from the west harbor. Stir yourselves, my 
military friends: the hunt is up. [4 clangor of trumpets from 
several points along the quay|. Aha! I told you so. 

CENTURION [guick/y] ‘The two extra men pass the alarm 
to the south posts. One man keep guard here. The rest 
with me — quick. 

The two auxiliary sentinels run off to the south, The cen- 
turion and his guard run off northward; and immediately after- 
evards the bucina sounds. The four porters come from tle palace 
carrying a carpet, followed by Ftatateeta. 

SENTINEL [Aandling his pilum apprehensively| You again! 
[Zte porters stop}. 

FTATATEETA. Peace, Roman fellow: you are now single- 
handed. Apollodorus: this carpet is Cleopatra’s present to 
Cesar. It has rolled up in it ten precious goblets of the 
thinnest Iberian crystal, and a hundred eggs of the sacred 
blue pigeon. On your honor, let not one of them be broken. 

APOLLODORUs. On my head be it! [Zo the porters] Into 
the boat with them carefully. 

The porters carry the carpet to the steps. 

FIRST PORTER [looking down at the beat) Beware what you 
do, sir. Those eggs of which the lady speaks must weigh 
more than a pound apiece. This boat is too small for such 
a load. 


150 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II] 


BOATMAN [excitedly rushing up the steps| Oh thou injur- 
ious porter! Oh thou unnatural son of a she-camel! [Zo 
Apollodorus| My boat, sir, hath often carried five men. 
Shall it not carry your lordship and a bale of pigeons’ eggs? 
[ Zo the porter) ‘Thou mangey dromedary, the gods shall pun- 
ish thee for this envious wickedness. 

FIRST PORTER [sfo/id/y] I cannot quit this bale now to 
beat thee; but another day I will lie in wait for thee. 

APOLLODORUS [going between them] Peace there. If the 
boat were but a single plank, I would get to Cesar on it. 

FTATATEETA [azxiously| In the name of the gods, Apollo- 
dorus, run no risks with that bale. 

APOLLoDoRUS. Fear not, thou venerable grotesque: I 
guess its great worth. [7d the porters] Down with it, I say ; 
and gently; or ye shall eat nothing but stick for ten days. 

The boatman goes down the steps, followed by the porters with 
the bale: Ftatateeta and Apollodorus watching from the edge. 

APOLLODoRus. Gently, my sons, my children — [w7th sud- 
den alarm| gently, ye dogs. Lay it level in the stern —so 
— tis well. 

FTATATEETA [screaming down at one of the porters) Do not 
step on it, do not step on it. Oh thou brute beast! 

FIRST PORTER [ascending] Be not excited, mistress: all is 
well. 

FTATATEETA [ panting] All well! Oh, thou hast given my 
heart a turn! [S4e clutches her side, gasping]. 

The four porters have now come up and are waiting at the 
stair head to be paid. 

APOLLODoRUS. Here, ye hungry ones. [He gives money to 
the first porter, who holds it in his hand to shew to the others. 
They crowd greedily to see how much it is, quite prepared, 
after the Eastern fashion, to protest to heaven against their 
patron’s stinginess. But his liberality overpowers them]. 

FIRST PORTER. O bounteous prince! 

SECOND PORTER. O lord of the bazaar! 

THIRD PORTER. O favored of the gods! 

FOURTH PoRTER. O father to all the porters of the market! 


Act III Cesar and Cleopatra 151 


SENTINEL [enviously, threatening them fiercely with his pilum] 
Hence, dogs: off. Out of this. [They fy Lefore him north- 
ward along the quay]. 

APOLLODoRUuS. Farewell, Ftatateeta. 1 shall be at the 
lighthouse before the Egyptians. [He descends tle steps]. 

FTATATEETA. The gods speed thee and protect my nurs- 
ling! 

The sentry returns from chasing the porters and looks down 
at the boat, standing near the stairhead lest Ftatateeta should 
attempt to escape. 

aPoLLoporus [ from beneath, as the boat moves of | Fare- 
well, valiant pilum pitcher. 

SENTINEL. Farewell, shopkeeper. 

APOLLODoRUs. Ha, ha! Pull, thou brave boatman, pull. 
Soho-o-o-0-0! [He begins to sing in barcarolle measure to the 
rhythm of the oars] 

My heart, my heart, spread out thy wings: 
Shake off thy heavy load of love— 
Give me the oars, O son of a snail. 

SENTINEL [threatening Ftatateeta| Now mistress: back to 
your henhouse. In with you. 

FTATATEETA [ falling on Fer knees and stretching ter hands 
over the waters} Gods of the seas, bear her safely to the 
shore ! 

SENTINEL. Bear who safely? What do you mean? 

FTATATEETA [/ocking darkly at fim] Gods of Egypt and of 
Vengeance, let this Roman fool be beaten like a dog by 
his captain for suffering her to be taken over the waters. 

SENTINEL. Accursed one: is she then in the boat? [He 
calls over the sea| Hoiho, there, boatman! Hoiho! 

APOLLODORUS [singing in the distance] 


My heart, my heart, be whole and free: 
Love is thine only enemy. 


Meanwhile Rufio, the morning's fighting done, sits munch- 
ing dates on a faggot of brushwood outside the door of the light- 
house, which towers gigantic to the clouds on his left. His 


1352 Three Plays for Puritans Act III 


helmet, full of dates, is between tis knees; and a leathern bottle 
of wine is by kis side. Behind him the great stone pedestal of 
the lighthouse is shut in from the open sea by a low stone para- 
pet, with a couple of steps in the middle to the broad coping. A 
huge chain with a hook hangs down from the lighthouse crane 
above his head, Faggots like the one he sits on le beneath it 
ready to be drawn up to feed the beacon. 

Cesar is standing on the step at the parapet looking out 
anxiously, evidently ill at ease. Britannus comes out of the 
lighthouse door. 

ruFIO. Well, my British islander. Have you been up to 
the top? 

BRiTANNUS. I have. I reckon it at 200 feet high. 

ruFIo. Anybody up there? 

BRITANNUS. One elderly Tyrian to work the crane; 
and his son, a well conducted youth of 14 

RUFIO [/ooking at the chain] What! An old man and a 
boy work that! ‘Twenty men, you mean. 

BRITANNUS. ‘I‘wo only, Lassure you. ‘They have counter- 
weights, and a machine with boiling water in it which I 
do not understand: it is not of British design. They use 
it to haul up barrels of oil and faggots to burn in the brazier 
on the roof. 

ruFIO. But — 

BRITANNUS. Excuse me: I came down because there are 
messengers coming along the mole to us from the island. 
I must see what their business is. [fe Aurries out past the 
lighthouse]. 

CESAR [coming away from the parapet, shivering and out of 
sorts| Rufio: this has been a mad expedition. We shall 
be beaten. I wish I knew how our men are getting on 
with that barricade across the great mole. 

ruFIo [angrily] Must I leave my food and go starving to 
bring you a report? 

c#sar [soothing him nervously] No, Rufio, no. Eat, my 
son, eat. [He takes another turn, Rufio chewing dates mean- 
while|. ‘The Egyptians cannot be such fools as not to storm 


Act III Cesar and Cleopatra 152 


the barricade and swoop down on us here before it is 
finished, It is the first time I have ever run an avoidable 
risk. I should not have come to Egypt. 

ruFio. An hour ago you were all for victory. 

cz#sar [apologetically| Yes: 1 was a fool— rash, Rufio 
— boyish. 

ruFIO. Boyish! Not a bit of it. Here [offering him a 
handful of dates). 

czsar. What are these for? 

RuFIo. ‘T’o eat. Thats whats the matter with you. 
When a man comes to your age, he runs down before his 
midday meal. Eat and drink; and then have another look 
at our chances. 

c#saR [taking the dates] My age! [He shakes his head 
and bites a date}. Yes, Rufio: I am an old man —worn 
out now—true, quite true. [He gives way to melancholy 
contemplation, and eats another date}. Achillas is still in his 
prime: Ptolemy isa boy. [He eats another date, and plucks up 
a little). Well, every dog has his day; and I have had mine: 
I cannot complain. [W7th sudden cheerfulness] These dates 
are not bad, Rufio. [Britannus returns, greatly excited, with 
aleathern bag. Cesar is himself againin a moment]. What now? 

BRITANNUs | ¢riumphantly| Our brave Rhodian mariners 
have capturedatreasure. There! [He throws the bag down at 
Cesar’s feet]. Our enemies are delivered into our hands. 

cesar. In that bag? 

BRITANNUS. Wait till you hear, Cesar. This bag con- 
tains all the letters which have passed between Pompey’s 
party and the army of occupation here. 

c#sar. Well? 

BRITANNUS [impatient of Ceesar’s slowness to grasp the 
situation) Well, we shall now know who your foes are. 
The name of every man who has plotted against you since 
you crossed the Rubicon may be in these papers, for all we 
know. 

cesar. Put them in the fire. 

BRITANNUS. Put them —[Ze gasps]!!! ! 


154 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


cesar. In the fire. Would you have me waste the next 
three years of my life in proscribing and condemning men 
who will be my friends when I have proved that my 
friendship is worth more than Pompey’s was — than Cato’s 
is. O incorrigible British islander: am I a bull dog, to seek 
quarrels merely to shew how stubborn my jaws are? 

BRITANNUS. But your honor —the honor of Rome — 

czesar. I do not make human sacrifices to my honor, as 
your Druids do. Since you will not burn these, at least I 
can drown them. [fe picks up the bag and throws it over the 
parapet into the sea). 

BRITANNuUS. Cesar: this is mere eccentricity. Are 
traitors to be allowed to go free for the sake of a paradox? 

RUFIO [rising] Cesar: when the islander has finished 
preaching, call me again. I am going to have a look at the 
boiling water machine. [He goes into the lighthouse]. 

BRITANNUS [2th genuine feeling] O Czsar, my great 
master, if I could but persuade you to regard life seriously, 
as men do in my country! 

czsaR. Do they truly do so, Britannus? 

BRITANNUS. Have you not been there? Have you not 
seen them? What Briton speaks as you doin your moments 
of levity? What Briton neglects to attend the services at 
the sacred grove? What Briton wears clothes of many 
colors as you do, instead of plain blue, as all solid, well 
esteemed men should? These are moral questions with us. 

csar. Well, well, my friend: some day I shall settle 
down and have a blue toga, perhaps. Meanwhile, I must 
get on as best I can in my flippant Roman way. [4po//0- 
dorus comes past the lighthouse], What now? 

BRITANNUS [turning quickly, and challenging the stranger 
with official haughtiness| Whatis this? Whoare you? How 
did you come here? 

APOLLOpoRus. Calm yourself, my friend: I am not 
going to eat you. I have come by boat, from Alexandria, 
with precious gifts for Casar. 

czsaR. From Alexandria! 


Act III Cesar and Cleopatra 155 


BRITANNUS [severe/y] ‘That is Cesar, sir. 

RUFIO [appearing at the lighthouse door] Whats the matter 
now? 

aPOLLopoRus. Hail, great Cesar! I am Apollodorus the 
Sicilian, an artist. 

BRITANNUS. An artist! Why have they admitted this 
vagabond? 

cmsaR. Peace, man. Apollodorus is a famous patrician 
amateur. 

BRITANNUS [disconcerted | I crave the gentleman’s pardon. 
[Zo Cesar] I understood him to say that he was a profes- 
sional. [Somewhat out of countenance, he allows Apollodorus to 
approach Cesar, changing places with him. Rufio, after look- 
ing Apollodorus up and down with marked disparagement, goes 
to the other side of the platform], 

cesar. You are welcome, Apollodorus. What is your 
business ? 

APOLLODORUS, First, to deliver to you a present from the 
Queen of Queens. 

c#sar. Who is that? 

APOLLODoRUS. Cleopatra of Egypt. 

cmsarR [taking him into his confidence in bis most winning 
manner| Apollodorus: this is no time for playing with 
presents. Pray you, go back to the Queen, and tell her 
that if all goes well I shall return to the palace this evening. 

APOLLoDoRUS. Cesar: I cannot return. As I approached 
the lighthouse, some fool threw a great leathern bag into 
the sea. It broke the nose of my boat; and I had hardly 
time to get myself and my charge to the shore before the 
poor little cockleshell sank. 

c#saR. I am sorry, Apollodorus. The fool shall be re- 
buked. Well, well: what have you brought me? The 
Queen will be hurt if I do not look at it. 

RuFIO. Have we time to waste on this trumpery? The 
Queen is only a child. 

cesar. Just so: that 1s why we must not disappoint 
her. What is the present, Apollodorus? 


156 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


APOLLODORUS. Cwsar: it isa Persian carpet —a beauty! 
And in it are—so I am told — pigeons’ eggs and crystal 
goblets and fragile precious things. I dare not for my 
head have it carried up that narrow ladder from the cause- 
way. 

RUFIO. Swing it up by the crane, then. We will send 
the eggs to the cook; drink our wine from the goblets; 
and the carpet will make a bed for Cesar. 

APOLLODORUs. ‘The crane! Czsar: I have sworn to 
tender this bale of carpet as I tender my own life. 

cesar [cleerfully] 'Then let them swing you up at the 
same time; and if the chain breaks, you and the pigeons’ 
eggs will perish together. [He goes to the chain and looks up 
along it, examining it curiously). 

APOLLODoRUs [to Britannus| Is Cesar serious? 

BRITANNUS. His manner is frivolous because he is an 
Italian ; but he means what he says. 

APOLLODORUS. Serious or not, he spake well. .Give mea 
squad of soldiers to work the crane. 

ERITANNUS. Leave the crane to me. Go and await the 
descent of the chain. 

APOLLoDoRus. Good. You will presently see me there 
[rurning to them all and pointing with an eloquent gesture to the 
sky above the parapet] rising like the sun with my treasure. 

He goes back the way he came. Britannus goes into the 
light house. 

ruFIO [Z//-/umoredly| Are you really going to wait here 
for this foolery, Cesar? 

cesar [backing away from the crané as it gives signs of 
working| Why not? 

ruFIO. The Egyptians will let you know why not if they 
have the sense to make a rush from the shore end of the 
mole before our barricade is finished. And here we are 
waiting like children to see a carpet full of pigcons’ eggs. 

The chain rattles, and is drawn up high enough to clear the 
parapet. It then swings round out of sight behind the lighthouse. 

czsar. Fear not, my son Rufio, When the first Egyptian 


Act HI Cesar and Cleopatra 167 


takes his first step along the mole, the alarm will sound; 
and we two will reach the barricade from our end before 
the Egyptians reach it from their end — we two, Rufio: J, 
the old man, and you, his biggest boy. And the old man 
will be there first. So peace; and give me some more dates. 

APOLLoDoRUSs [_/rom the causeway below] Soho, haul away. 
So-ho-o-o0-0! [Te chain is drawn up and comes round again 
Srom behind the lighthouse. Apollodorus is swinging in the air 
with his bale of carpet at the end of it. He breaks into song as 
he soars above the parapet] 


Aloft, aloft, behold the blue 
That never shone in woman’s eyes — 


Easy there: stop her. [He ceases to rise]. Further round! 
[Zhe chain comes forward above the platform]. 

RUFIO [calling up] Lower away there. [Te chain and its 
load begin to descend |. 

APOLLOoDORUS [calling up| Gently — slowly — mind the 
eggs. 

RUFIO [calling up| Easy there — slowly —slowly. 

Apollodorus and the bale are deposited safely on the flags in 
the middle of the platform. Rufio and Cesar help Apollodorus 
to cast off the chain from the bale. 

RuFIO. Haul up. 

The chain rises clear of their heads with a rattle. Britan- 
nus comes from the lighthouse and helps them to uncord the 
carpet. 

APOLLoDoRUus [when the cords are loose] Stand off, my 
friends: let Cesar see. [He throws the carpet open]. 

ruFIo. Nothing but a heap of shawls. Where are the 
pigeons’ eggs? 

APOLLODoRUsS. Approach, Cesar; and search for them 
among the shawls. 

RUFIO [drawing fis sword] Ha, treachery! Keep back, 
Cesar: I saw the shawl move: there is something alive 
there. 

BRITANNUS [drawing his sword] It is a serpent. 


158 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


APOLLoDoRUs. Dares Cesar thrust his hand into the sack 
where the serpent moves? 

RuFIO [turning on him] 'Treacherous dog — 

cesar. Peace. Put up your swords. Apollodorus: your 
serpent seems to breathe very regularly. [He thrusts his 
hand under the shawls and draws out a bare arm\, ‘This is a 
pretty little snake. 

RuUFIO [drawing out the other arm] Let us have the rest of 
rou. 
They pull Cleopatra up by the wrists into a sitting position. 
Britannus, scandalized, sheathes his sword with a drive of 
protest. 

CLEOPATRA [gasping] Oh, I’m smothered. Oh, Cesar, a 
man stood on me in the boat; and a great sack of some- 
thing fell upon me out of the sky; and then the boat sank ; 
and then I was swung up into the air and bumped down. 

caesar [petting her as she rises and takes refuge on his 
breast] Well, never mind: here you are safe and sound at 
last. 

RuFIO. Ay; and now that she is here, what are we to 
do with her? 

BRITANNUS. She cannot stay here, Czsar, without the 
companionship of some matron. 

cLEoPATRA [ jealously, to Ca@sar, who is obviously perplexed | 
Arnt you glad to see me? 

cmsar. Yes, yes; £ am very glad. But Rufio is very 
angry; and Britannus is shocked. 

CLEOPATRA [contemptuously| You can have their heads cut 
off, can you not? 

ca#sar. They would not be so useful with their heads 
cut off as they are now, my sea bird. 

ruFIo [to Cleopatra] We shall have to go away presently 
and cut some of your Egyptians’ heads off. How will you 
like being left here with the chance of being captured by 
that little brother of yours if we are beaten? 

CLEOPATRA. But you mustnt leave me alone. Cesar: 
you will not leave me alone, will you? 


Act II Cesar and Cleopatra 159 


ruFIO. What! not when the trumpet sounds and all our 
lives depend on Cesar’s being at the barricade before the 
Egyptians reach it?) Eh? 

CLEOPATRA. Let them lose their lives: they are only 
soldiers. 

caesar [ gravely| Cleopatra: when that trumpet sounds, 
we must take every man his life in his hand, and throw it 
in the face of Death. And of my soldiers who have trusted 
me there is not one whose hand I shall not hold more 
sacred than your head. [Cleopatra is overwhelmed. Her eyes 
fill with tears). Apollodorus: you must take her back to the 
palace. 

APOLLODORUs. Am I a dolphin, Cesar, to cross the seas 
with young ladies on my back? My boat is sunk: all 
yours are either at the barricade or have returned to the 
city. I will hail one if I can: that is all I can do. [He 
goes back to the causeway), 

CLEOPATRA [straggling with her tears| It does not matter. 
I will not go back. Nobody cares for me. 

c@#sar. Cleopatra — 

CLEOPATRA. You want me to be killed. 

c#sar [still more gravely] My poor child: your life 
matters little here to anyone but yourself. [Sse gives way 
altogether at this, casting herself down on the faggots weeping. 
Suddenly a great tumult is heard in the distance, bucinas and 
trumpets sounding through a storm of shouting. Britannus 
rushes to the parapet and looks along the mole. Casar and 
Rufio turn to one another with quick intelligence). 

cz#saR. Come, Rufio. 

CLEOPATRA [scrambling to her knees and clinging to him] 
No, no. Do not leave me, Cesar. [He snatches his shirt 
Srom her clutch), Oh! 

BRITANNUs [ from the parapet) Cesar: we are cut off. 
The Egyptians have landed from the west harbor between 
us and the barricade!!! 

RUFIO [running to see] Curses! Itis true. We are caught 
like rats in a trap. 


160 Three Plays for Puritans = Act Il 


cesar [ruthfu/ly] Rufio, Rufio: my men at the barri- 
cade are between the sea party and the shore party. I have 
murdered them. 

RUFIO [coming back from the parapet to Cesar’s right hand | 
Ay: that comes of fooling with this girl here. 

APOLLODORUS [coming up quickly from the causeway] Look 
over the parapet, Cesar. 

czsar. We have looked, my friend. We must defend 
ourselves here. 

APOLLoDoRUS. I have thrown the ladder into the sea. 
They cannot get in without it. 

RuF1Io. Ay; and we cannot get out. Have you thought 
of that? 

APOLLODoRUS. Not get out! Why not? You have ships 
in the east harbor. 

BRITANNUS [/opefully, at the parapet] ‘The Rhodian galleys 
are standing in towards us already. [Cesar quickly joins 
Britannus at the parapet). 

RuUFIO [to Apollodorus, impatiently] And by what road 
are we to walk to the galleys, pray? 

APOLLODORUs [with gay, defiant rhetoric] By the road that 
Jeads everywhere —the diamond path of the sun and 
moon. Have you never seen the child’s shadow play of 
The Broken Bridge? ‘Ducks and geese with ease get over” 
—eh? [He throws away his cloak and cap, and binds his 
sword on his back). 

ruFio. What are you talking about? 

APOLLopoRus. I will shew you. [Calling to Britannus] 
How far off is the nearest galley? 

BRITANNUS. Fifty fathom. 

czsar. No, no: they are further off than they seem in 
this clear air to your British eyes. Nearly quarter of a mile, 
Apollodorus. 

APOLLoDoRus. Good. Defend yourselves here until I 
send you a boat from that galley. 

RuFIOo. Have you wings, perhaps? 

APOLLODORUs. Water wings, soldier. Behold! 


Act UI Cesar and Cleopatra TO 


He runs up the steps between Ceasar and Britannus to the 
coping of the parapet; springs into the air; and plunges head 
foremost into the sea. 

cesar [ike a schoolboy — wildly excited| Bravo, bravo! 
[ Throwing off his cloak] By Jupiter, I will do that too. 

RUFIO [se¢zing him] You are mad. You shall not. 

c#sar. Why not? Can I not swim as well as he? 

ruFIO [ fraztic] Can an old fool dive and swim like a 
young one? He is twenty-five and you are fifty. 

c#sar [breaking loose from Rufio] Old!!! 

BRITANNUS [shocked] Rufio: you forget yourself. 

cesar. I will race you to the galley for a week’s pay, 
father Rufio. 

CLEOPATRA. But me! me!! me!!! what is to become 
of me? 

c#sar. I will carry you on my back to the galley like 
a dolphin. Rufio: when you see me rise to the surface, 
throw her in: I will answer for her. And then in with 
you after her, both of you. 

cLeEopATRA. No, no, NO. I shall be drowned. 

BRITANNUS. Cesar: I am a man and a Briton, nota fish. 
T must have a boat. I cannot swim. 

CLEOPATRA. Neither can I. 

c#sar [to Britannus| Stay here, then, alone, until I 
recapture the lighthouse: I will not forget you. Now, 
Rufo. 

RuFI0. You have made up your mind to this folly? 

cesar. The Egyptians have made it up for me. What 
else is there todo? And mind where you jump: I do not 
want to get your fourteen stone in the small of my back as 
I come up. [He runs up the steps and stands on the coping). 

BRITANNUS [azxiously] One last word, Cesar. Do not 
let yourself be seen in the fashionable part of Alexandria 
until you have changed your clothes. 

caesar [calling over the sea] Ho, Apollodorus: [Ae points 
skyward and quotes the barcarolle] 

The white upon the blue above — 
M 


162 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


APOLLODORUs [sevimming in the distance] 
Is purple on the green below — 


caesar [exultantly| Aha! [He plunges into the sea}. 

CLEOPATRA [running excitedly to the steps| Oh, let me see. 
He will be drowned [Rafa seizes her] — Ah —ah — ah — 
ah! [He pitches her screaming into the sea. Rufio and Britan- 
nus roar with laughter]. 

ruFIO [looking down after her| He has got her. [Zo 
Britannus| Hold the fort, Briton. Cesar will not forget 
you. [He springs off]. 

BRITANNUS [running to the steps to watch them as they swim] 
All safe, Rufio? 

RuUFIO [swimming] All safe. 

caesar [swimming further off | Take refuge up there by 
the beacon; and pile the fuel on the trap door, Britannus. 

BRITANNUS [calling in reply] I will first do so, and then 
commend myself to my country’s gods. [4 sound of cheering 
from the sea. Britannus gives full vent to his excitement]. "The 
boat has reached him: Hip, hip, hip, hurrah! 


ACT IV 


Cleopatra’s sousing in the east harbor of Alexandria was in 
October 48 B.C. In March 47 she is passing the afternoon in 
her boudoir in the palace, among a bevy of her ladies, listening 
to a slave girl who is playing the harp in the middle of the room. 
The harpist’s master, an old musician, with a lined face, promi- 
nent brows, white beard, moustache and eyebrows twisted and 
horned at the ends, and a consciously keen and pretentious ex- 
pression, is squatting on the floor close to her on ber right, 
watching her performance. Ftatateeta is in attendance near 
the door, in front of a group of female slaves. Except the harp 
player all are seated: Cleopatra in a chair opposite the door on 
the other side of the room; the rest on the ground. Cleopatra’s 
ladies are all young, the most conspicuous being Charmian and 
Tras, her favorites. Charmian is a hatchet faced, terra cotta 
colored little goblin, swift in her movements, and neatly finished 
at the hands and feet. Iras is a plump, goodnatured creature, 
rather fatuous, with a profusion of red hair, and a tendency to 
giggle on the slightest provocation. 


CLEOPATRA. Can I — 

FTATATEETA [izsolently, to the player] Peace, thou! The 
Queen speaks. [ Zhe player stops}. 

CLEOPATRA [fo the old musician| I want to learn to play 
the harp with my own hands. Cesar loves music. Can 
you teach me? 

musician. Assuredly I and no one else can teach the 


164 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


queen. Have I not discovered the lost method of the 
ancient Egyptians, who could make a pyramid tremble by 
touching a bass string? All the other teachers are quacks: 
I have exposed them repeatedly. 

CLEOPATRA. Good: you shall teach me. How long will 
it take? 

musician. Not very long: only four years. Your 
Majesty must first become proficient in the philosophy of 
Pythagoras. 

cLeopaTRA. Has she [indicating the slave| become pro- 
ficient in the philosophy of Pythagoras? 

Musician. Oh, she is but a slave. She learns as a dog 
learns. 

CLEOPATRA. Well, then, I will learn as a dog learns; for 
she plays better than you. You shall give mea lesson every 
day for a fortnight. [Ze musician hastily scrambles to his 
feet and bows profoundly|. After that, whenever I strike a 
false note you shall be flogged; and if I strike so many 
that there is not time to flog you, you shall be thrown into 
the Nile to feed the crocodiles. Give the girl a piece of 
gold; and send them away. 

musician [much taken aback} But true art will not be 
thus forced. 

FTATATEETA [ pushing him out] What is this? Answering 
the Queen, forsooth. Out with you. 

He is pushed out by Ftatateeta, the girl following with her 
harp, amid the laughter of the ladies and slaves. 

cLEopaTRA. Now, can any of youamuse me? Have you 
any stories or any news? 

rrasS. Ftatateeta — 

CLEOPATRA. Oh, Ftatateeta, Ftatateeta, always Ftatateeta. 
Some new tale to set me against her. 

iras. No: this time Ftatateeta has been virtuous. [.4// 
the ladies laugh—mnot the slaves|. Pothinus has been trying 
to bribe her to let him speak with you. 

cleopatra [wrathfully| Ha! you all sell audiences with 
me, as if I saw whom you please, and not whom I please. 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 165 


I should like to know how much of her gold picce that 
harp girl will have to give up before she leaves the 
palace. 

rras. We can easily find out that for you. 

The ladies laugh. 

CLEOPATRA [frowning] You laugh; but take care, take 
care. Iwill find out some day how to make mysclf served 
as Cesar is served. 

cHarmian. Old hooknose! [They laugh again). 

cleopatra [revolted] Silence. Charmian: do not you 
be a silly little Egyptian fool. Do you know why I allow 
you all to chatter impertinently just as you please, instead 
of treating you as Ftatateeta would treat you if she were 
Ouceen? 

CHARMIAN. Because you try to imitate Cesar in every- 
thing; and he lets everybody say what they please to him. 

CLEOPATRA. No; but because I asked him one day why 
he did so; and he said ‘*Let your women talk; and you 
will learn something from them.” What have I to learn 
from them? I said. ‘‘ What they are,” said he; and oh! 
you should have seen his eye as he said it. You would have 
curled up, you shallow things. [Z/ey /augh. Ste turns 
fiercely on Iras|. At whom are you laughing—at me or at 
Cesar? 

ras. At Cesar. ne 

CLEOPATRA. If you were not a fool, you would laugh at 
me; and if you were not a coward you would not be afraid 
to tell me so. [Ftatateeta returns], Ftatateeta: they tell 
me that Pothinus has offered you a bribe to admit him to 
my presence. 

FTATATEETA [ protesting] Now by my father’s gods — 

cLEoPaTRA [cutting her short despotically| Have I not told 
you not to deny things? You would spend the day calling 
your father’s gods to witness to your virtues if I let you. 
Go take the bribe; and bring in Pothinus. [Ftatateeta ts 
about to reply|. Dont answer me. Go. 

Ftatateeta goes out; and Cleopatra rises and begins to prowl 


166 Three Plays for Puritans Activ 


to and fro between her chair and the door, meditating. All rise 
and stand. 

ras [as she reluctantly rises] Heigho! I wish Cesar were 
back in Rome. 

cLeopaTrRa [threateningly|] It will be a bad day for you 
all when he goes. Oh, if I were not ashamed to let him 
see that I am as cruel at heart as my father, I would make 
you repent that speech! Why do you wish him away? 

CHARMIAN. He makes you so terribly prosy and serious 
and learned and philosophical. It 1s worse than being 
religious, at our ages. [Ze /adies laugh]. 

CLEOPATRA. Cease that endless cackling, will you. Hold 
your tongues. 

CHARMIAN [with meck resignation] Well, well: we must 
try to live up to Cesar. 

They laugh again. Cleopatra rages silently as she continues 
to prowl to and fro. Ftatateeta comes back with Pothinus, 
who halts on the threshold, 

FTATATEETA [at the door} Pothinus craves the ear of the — 

CLEOPATRA. There, there: that will do: let him come 
in. [She resumes her seat. All sit down except Pothinus, who 
advances to the middle of the room. Ftatateeta takes her former 
place.| Well, Pothinus: what 1s the latest news from your 
rebel friends? 

poTHinus [/aughtily| I am no friend of rebellion. And 
a prisoner does not receive news. 

CLEOPATRA. YOu are no more a prisoner than I am— 
than Cesar is. These six months we have been besieged 
in this palace by my subjects. You are allowed to walk 
on the beach among the soldiers. Can I go further myself, 
or can Cesar? 

poTHinus. You are but a child, Cleopatra, and do not 
understand these matters. 

The ladies laugh, Cleopatra looks inscrutably at him. 

cHARMIAN. I see you do not know the latest news, 
Pothinus. 

poTHinus. What is that? 


Act 1V Cesar and Cleopatra 167 


CHARMIAN. That Cleopatra is no longer a child. Shall 
I tell you how to grow much older, and much, much 
wiser in one day? 

poTHiNus. I should prefer to grow wiser without grow- 
ing older. 

CHARMIAN. Well, go up to the top of the lighthouse ; 
and get somebody to take you by the hair and throw you 
into the sea. [ ZZe ladies laugh). 

CLEopaTRA. She 1s right, Pothinus: you will come to 
the shore with much conceit washed out of you. [Z7Ze Ladies 
laugh. Cleopatra rises impatiently). Begone, all of you. I 
will speak with Pothinus alone. Drive them out, Ftatateeta. 
[They run out laughing. Ftatateeta shuts the door on them). 
What are you waiting for? 

FTATATEETA. It is not meet that the Queen remain alone 
with — 

CLEOPATRA [interrupting Ler| Ftatateeta: must I sacrifice 
you to your father’s gods to teach you that J am Queen of 
Egypt, and not you? 

FTATATEETA [indignantly] You are like the rest of them. 
You want to be what these Romans call a New Woman. 
[She goes out, banging the door). 

CLEOPATRA [sitting down again] Now, Pothinus: why did 
you bribe Ftatateeta to bring you hither? 

poTHINuS [studying her gravely] Cleopatra: what they 
tell me is true. You are changed. 

CLEOPATRA. Do you speak with Cesar every day for six 
months: and you will be changed. 

PoTHinus. It is the common talk that you are infatuated 
with this old man? 

CLEOPATRA. Infatuated? What does that mean? Made 
foolish, is it not? Oh no: I wish I were. 

POTHINUS. You wish you were made foolish! How so? 

CLEOPATRA. When I was foolish, I did what I -liked, 
except when Ftatateeta beat me; and even then IJ cheated 
her and did it by stealth. Now that Caesar has made me 
wise, it is no use my liking or disliking: I do what must 


168 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


be done, and have no time to attend to myself. That is not 
happiness; but itis greatness. If Czsar were gone, I think 
I could govern the Egyptians; for what Cesar is to me, I 
am to the fools around me. 

poTHinus [looking hard at /er| Cleopatra: this may be 
the vanity of youth. 

CLEOPATRA. No, no: it is not that I am so clever, but 
that the others are so stupid. 

PoTHiINus [musingly| ‘Truly, that is the great secret. 

CLEOPATRA. Well, now tell me what you came to say? 

poTHinus [embarrassed] I! Nothing. 

cLeopaTRA. Nothing! 

poTHinus. At least—to beg for my liberty: that is all. 

CLEOPATRA. For that you would have knelt to Cesar. 
No, Pothinus: you came with some plan that depended 
on Cleopatra being a little nursery kitten. Now that 
Cleopatra is a Queen, the plan is upset. 

poTHinus [owing his lead submissively| It 1s so. 

cLEopATRA [exu/tant| Aha! 

PoTHINus [raising his eyes keenly to hers] Is Cleopatra then 
indeed a Queen, and no longer Cesar’s prisoner and slave? 

cLeopaTRA. Pothinus: we are all Czsar’s slaves—all we 
in this land of Egypt—whether we will or no. And she 
who is wise enough to know this will reign when Cesar 
departs. 

POTHINUS. You harp on Cesar’s departure. 

CLEOPATRA. What if I do? 

PoTHINUS. Does he not love you? 

CLEOPATRA. Love me! Pothinus: Cesar loves no one. 
Who are those we love? Only those whom we do not 
hate: all people are strangers and enemies to us except 
those we love. But it is not so with Cesar. He has no 
hatred in him: he makes friends with everyone as he does 
with dogs and children. His kindness to me is a wonder: 
neither mother, father, nor nurse have ever taken so much 
care for me, or thrown open their thoughts to me so 
freely. 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 169 


PoTH:nus. Well: is not this love? 

CLEOPATRA. What! when he will do as much for the 
first girl he meets on his way back to Rome? Ask his 
slave, Britannus: he has been just as good to him. Nay, 
ask his very horse! His kindness is not for anything in 
me: it is in his own nature. 

POTHINUS. But how can you be sure that he does not 
love you as men love women? 

CLEOPATRA. Because I cannot make him jealous. I have 
tried. 

porHinus. Hm! Perhaps I should have asked, then, do 
you love him? 

CLEOPATRA. Can one love a god? Besides, I love another 
Roman: one whom I saw long before Cxsar—no god, 
but a man —one who can love and hate—one whom I 
can hurt and who would hurt me. 

PoTHiNus. Does Cesar know this? 

CLEOPATRA. Yes. 

poTHinus. And he is not angry? 

CLEOPATRA. He promises to send him to Egypt to please 
me ! 

roTHinus. I do not understand this man. 

CLEOPATRA [with superb contempt| You understand 
Cesar! How could you? [Proudly] I do —by instinct. 

poTHinus [deferentially, after a moment's thought] Your 
Majesty caused me to be admitted to-day. What message 
has the Queen for me? 

CLEOPATRA. This. You think that by making my 
brother king, you will rule in Egypt, because you are his 
guardian and he 1s a little silly. 

poTHinus. The Queen is pleased to say so. 

CLEOPATRA. T*he Queen is pleased to say this also. That 
Cesar will eat up you, and Achillas, and my brother, as a 
cat eats up mice; and that he will put on this land of Egypt 
as a shepherd puts on his garment. And when he has done 
that, he will return to Rome, and leave Cleopatra here as 
his viceroy. 


170 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


poTHiNnus [breaking out wrathfully| That he will never 
do. We have a thousand men to his ten; and we will 
drive him and his beggarly legions into the sea. 

CLEOPATRA [with scorn, getting up to go] You rant like 
any common fellow. Go, then, and marshal your thousands ; 
and make haste; for Mithridates of Pergamos is at hand 
with reinforcements for Cwsar. Czsar has held you at bay 
with two legions: we shall see what he will do with twenty. 

PoTHINUs. Cleopatra — 

cLeopATRA. Enough, enough: Cesar has spoiled me for 
talking to weak things like you. [S/e goes out. Pothinus, 
with a gesture of rage, is following, when Ftatateeta enters and 
stops him). 

poTHinus. Let me go forth from this hateful place. 

FTATATEETA. What angers you? 

poTHinus. The curse of all the gods of Egypt be upon 
her! She has sold her country to the Roman, that she 
may buy it back from him with her kisses. 

FTATATEETA. Fool: did she not tell you that she would 
have Cesar gone? 

POTHINUS. You listened? 

FTATATEETA. I took care that some honest woman should 
be at hand whilst you were with her. 

poTHinus. Now by the gods — 

FTATATEETA. Enough of your gods! Czsar’s gods are all 
powerful here. It is no use you coming to Cleopatra: 
you are only an Egyptian. She will not listen to any of 
her own race: she treats us all as children. 

poTHinus. May she perish for it! 

FTATATEETA [balefully| May your tongue wither for that 
wish! Go! send for Lucius Septimius, the slayer of Pom- 
pey. He is a Roman: may be she will listen to him. Be- 
gone! 

poTHinus [dark/y| I know to whom I must go now. 

FTATATEETA [suspiciously| ‘To whom, then? 

PoTHINUsS. To a greater Roman than Lucius. And mark 
this, mistress. You thought, before Cesar came, that Egypt 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 171 


should presently be ruled by you and your crew in the 
name of Cleopatra. I set myself against it — 

FTATATEETA [interrupting him —wranglng| Ay; that it 
might beruled by youand yourcrewin the name of Ptolemy. 

poTHinus. Better me, or even you, than a woman with 
a Roman heart; and that is what Cleopatra is now become. 
Whilst I live, she shall never rule. So guide yourself 
accordingly. [He goes out). 

It is by this time drawing on to dinner time. The table is 
laid on the roof of the palace; and thither Rufio is now climbing, 
ushered by a majestic palace official, wand of office in hand, 
and followed by a slave carrying an inlaid stool. After 
many stairs they emerge at last into a massive colonnade on the 
roof. Light curtains are drawn between the columns on the 
north and east to soften the westering sun. The official leads 
Rufio to one of these shaded sections. A cord for pulling the 
curtains apart hangs down between the pillars. 

THE OFFICIAL [owing] The Roman commander will 
await Cesar here. 

The slave sets down the stool near the southernmost column, 
and slips out through the curtains. 

RuFIO [sitting down, a little blown| Pouf! That was a 
climb. How high have we come? 

THE OFFICIAL. We are on the palace roof, O Beloved 
of Victory ! 

ruFIO. Good! the Beloved of Victory has no more 
stairs to get up. 

A second official enters from the opposite end, walking 
backwards. 

THE SECOND OFFICIAL. Ceasar approaches. 

Cesar, fresh from the bath, clad in a new tunic of purple 
silk, comes in, beaming and festive, followed by two slaves 
carrying a light couch, which is hardly more than an elaborately 
designed bench. They place it near the northmost of the two 
curtained columns. When this is done they slip out through the 
curtains; and the two officials, formally bowing, follow them. 
Rufio rises to receive Ceasar. 


172 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


cesar [coming over to him] Why, Rufio! [Surveying his 
dress with an air of admiring astonishment| A new baldrick! 
A new golden pommel to your sword! And you have had 
your hair cut! But not your beard—? impossible! 
[fe sniffs at Rufio’s beard|. Yes, perfumed, by Jupiter 
Olympus! 

RUFIO [ growling} Well: is it to please myself? 

cesar [affectionately] No, my son Rufio, but to please 
me —to celebrate my birthday. 

RUFIO [contemptuously| Your birthday! You always have 
a birthday when there is a pretty girl to be flattered or an 
ambassador to be conciliated. We had seven of them in 
ten months last year. 

C#SaR [contritely| It is true, Rufio! I shall never break 
myself of these petty deceits. 

ruFIo. Who is to dine with us — besides Cleopatra? 

cesar. Apollodorus the Sicilian. 

RuFIO. ‘That popinjay ! 

cesar. Come! the popinjay is an amusing dog — tells 
a story; sings asong; and saves us the trouble of flattering 
the Queen. What does she care for old politicians and 
camp-fed bears like us? No: Apollodorus is good com- 
pany, Rufio, good company. 

ruFIO. Well, he can swim a bit and fence a bit: he 
might be worse, if he only knew how to hold his tongue. 

c#sar. The gods forbid he should ever learn! Oh, this 
military life! this tedious, brutal life of action! That is 
the worst of us Romans: we are mere doers and drudgers : 
a swarm of bees turned into men. Give me a good talker 
—one with wit and imagination enough to live without 
continually doing something! 

ruFIo. Ay! a nice time he would have of it with you 
when dinner was over! Have you noticed that I am before 
my time? 

cmsar. Aha! I thought that meant something. What 
Is It? 

RuFIO, Can we be overheard here? 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra L732 


c#saR. Our privacy invites eavesdropping. I can 
remedy that. [fe claps his hands twice. The curtains are 
drawn, revealing the roof garden with a banqueting table set 
across in the middle for four persons, one at each end, and two 
side by side. The side next Casar and Rufio is blocked with 
golden wine vessels and basins. A gorgeous major-domo is 
superintending the laying of the table by a staff of slaves. The 
colonnade goes round the garden at both sides to the further end, 
where a gap in it, like a great gateway, leaves the view open 
to the sky beyond the western edge of the roof, except in the 
middle, where a life size image of Ra, seated on a huge plinth, 
towers up, with hawk head and crown of asp and disk. His 
altar, which stands at his feet, is a single white stone]. Now 
everybody can see us, nobody will think of listening to us. 
[He sits down on the bench left by the two slaves). 

RuFIO [sitting down on his stool] Pothinus wants to speak 
to you. I advise you to see him: there is some plotting 
going on here among the women. 

czsar. Whois Pothinus? 

ruFIO. The fellow with hair like squirrel’s fur — the 
little King’s bear leader, whom you kept prisoner. 

c@SAR [cznoyed | And has he not escaped? 

ruFIO. No. 

c#sar [rising imperiously|} Why not? You have been 
guarding this man instead of watching the enemy. Have 
] not told you always to let prisoners escape unless there 
are special orders to the contrary? Are there not enough 
mouths to be fed without him? 

RuFIO. Yes; and if you would have a little sense and 
let me cut his throat, you would save his rations. Anyhow, 
he wont escape. Three sentries have told him they would 
put a pilum through him if they saw him again. What 
more can they do? He prefers to stay and spy on us. So 
would I if I had to do with generals subject to fits of 
clemency. 

cz&sar [resuming his seat, argued down) Hm! And so he 
wants to see me. 


17a. Three Plays for Puritans = Act 1V 


ruFIo. Ay. J] have brought him with me. He is wait- 
ing there [jerking his thumb over his shoulder) under 
guard, 

czsar. And you want me to see him? 

RuFIO [odstinate/y| I dont want anything. I daresay you 
will do what you like. Dont put it on to me. 

CESAR [with an air of doing it expressly to indulge Rufio] 
Well, well: let us have him. 

ruFIO [ca//ing| Ho there, guard! Release your man and 
send him up. [Beckoning]. Come along! 

Pothinus enters and stops mistrustfully between the two, 
looking from one to the other. 

c#SaR [graciously] Ah, Pothinus! You are welcome. 
And what is the news this afternoon? 

PoTHINUS. Czsar: I come to warn you of a danger, and 
to make you an offer. 

cesar. Never mind the danger. Make the offer. 

ruFio. Never mind the offer. Whats the danger? 

POTHINUS. Cesar: you think that Cleopatra is devoted 
to you. 

cesar [gravely] My friend: I already know what | 
think. Come to your offer. 

poTHinus. I will deal plainly. I know not by what 
strange gods you have been enabled to defend a palace and 
a few yards of beach against a city and anarmy. Since we 
cut you off from Lake Mareotis, and you dug wells in the 
salt sea sand and brought up buckets of fresh water from 
them, we have known that your gods are irresistible, and 
that you are a worker of miracles. I no longer threaten 

ou — 

; RuFIO [sarcastically| Very handsome of you, indeed. 

porHinus. So be it: you are the master. Our gods sent 
the north west winds to keep you in our hands; but you 
have been too strong for them. 

c#SAR [gently urging him to come to the point| Yes, yes, 
my friend. But what then? 

RUFIO. Spit it out, man. What have you to say? 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 175 


PoTHINus. I have to say that you have a traitress in your 
camp. Cleopatra — 

THE MAJOR-DOMO [at the table, announcing| The Queen! 
[Caesar and Rufio rise}. 

RUFIO [aside to Pothinus}| You should have spat it out 
sooner, you fool. Now it is too late. 

Cleopatra, in gorgeous raiment, enters in state through the 
gap in the colonnade, and comes down past the image of Ra and 
past the table to Caesar. Her retinue, leaded by Ftatateeta, 
joins the staff at the table. Ceasar gives Cleopatra his seat, 
which she takes. 

CLEOPATRA [quickly, seeing Pothinus| What is he doing 
here? 

c@saR [seating himself beside her, in the most amiable of 
tempers) Just going to tell me something about you. You 
shall hear it. Proceed, Pothinus. 

POTHINUS [disconcerted | Czesar— [4e stammers]. 

cesar. Well, out with it. 

poTHinus. What I have to say is for your ear, not for 
the Queen’s. 

CLEOPATRA [with subdued ferocity] There are means of 
making you speak. T’ake care. 

POTHINUS [defiantly] Czsar does not employ those means. 

c#sar. My friend: when a man has anything to tell in 
this world, the difhculty is not to make him tell it, but to 
prevent him from telling it too often. Let me celebrate 
my birthday by setting you free. Farewell: we shall not 
meet again. 

CLEOPATRA [azgrily] Cesar: this mercy is foolish. 

PoTHINUS [to Ca@sar] Will you not give me a private 
audience? Your life may dependonit. [Cesar rises loftily]. 

RUFIO [aside to Pothinus} Ass! Now we shall have some 
heroics. 

cesar [oratorically| Pothinus — 

RUFIO [interrupting him| Cesar: the dinner will spoil if 
you begin preaching your favourite sermon about life and 
death, 


176 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


cLeopaTra [ priggishly] Peace, Rufio. I desire to hear 
Cxsar. 

ruFIo [b/unt/y] Your Majesty has heard it before. You 
repeated it to Apollodorus last week; and he thought it 
was all your own. [Cesar’s dignity collapses. Much tickled, 
he sits down again and looks roguishly at Cleopatra, who is 
Jurious. Rufio calls as before) Ho there, guard! Pass the 
prisoner out. He is released. [Zo Pothinus] Now off with 
you. You have lost your chance. 

poTHinus [Ais temper overcoming his prudence] I will 
speak. 

caesar [to Cleopatra] You see. Torture would not have 
wrung a word from him. 

poTHINUs. Cesar: you have taught Cleopatra the arts 
by which the Romans govern the world. 

cmsar. Alas! they cannot even govern themselves. 
What then? 

poTHinus. What then? Are you so besotted with her 
beauty that you do not see that she is impatient to reign 
in Egypt alone, and that her heart is set on your departure? 

CLEOPATRA [rising] Liar! 

camsar [shocked] What! Protestations! Contradictions! 

CLEOPATRA [ashamed, but trembling with suppressed rage] 
No. I do not deign to contradict. Let him talk. [S4e sits 
down again\. 

POTHINUS. From her own lips I have heard it. You are 
to be her catspaw: you are to tear the crown from her 
brother’s head and set it on her own, delivering us all into 
her hand—delivering yourself also. And then Cesar can 
return to Rome, or depart through the gate of death, which 
is nearer and surer. 

cmsar [calmly} Well, my friend; and is not this very 
natural ? 

poruinus [astonished | Natural! Then you do not resent 
treachery? 

casar. Resent! O thou foolish Egyptian, what have I 
to do with resentment? Do I resent the wind when it 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra L777 


chiils me, or the night when it makes me stumble in the 
darkness? Shall I resent youth when it turns from age, 
and ambition when it turns from servitude? To tell me 
such a story as this is but to tell me that the sun will rise 
to-morrow. 

CLEOPATRA [azable to contain herself| But it is false— 
false. I swear it. 

c#sar. It is true, though you swore it a thousand times, 
and believed all you swore. [S4#e is convulsed with emotion. 
To screen ter, fe rises and takes Pothinus to Rufio, saying] 
Come, Rufio: let us see Pothinus past the guard. I have 
a word to say to him. [Aside to them] We must give the 
Queen a moment to recover herself. [4/oud] Come. [He 
takes Pothinus and Rufio out with him, conversing with them 
meanwohile|. ‘Tell your friends, Pothinus, that they must 
not think I am opposed to a reasonable settlement of the 
country’s affairs — [They pass out of hearing]. 

CLEOPATRA [i” a stified whisper| Ftatateeta, Ftatateeta. 

FTATATEETA [/urrying to Ler from the table and petting her] 
Peace, child: be comforted — 

CLEOPATRA [interrupting fer| Can they hear us? 

FTATATEETA. No, dear heart, no. 

CLEOPATRA. Listen tome. If he leaves the Palace alive, 
never see my face again. 

FTATATEETA. He? Poth — 

CLEOPATRA [striking her on the mouth] Strike his life out 
as I strike his name from your lips. Dash him down from 
the wall. Break him on the stones. Kill, kill, kill 
him. 

FTATATEETA [shewing all her teeth] The dog shall perish. 

CLEOPATRA. Fail in this, and you go out from before me 
for ever. 

FTATATEETA [resolutely] So be it. You shall not see my 
face until his eyes are darkened. 

Cesar comes back, with Apollodorus, exquisitely dressed, 
and Rufio. 

CLEOPATRA [#0 Ftatafeeta] Come soon — soon. [ Ftatateeta 

N 


178 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


turns her meaning eyes for a moment on Ler mistress; then goes 
grimly away past Ra and out. Cleopatra runs like a gazelle 
to C@sar| So you have come back to me, Cesar. [Caress- 
ingly} I thought you were angry. Welcome, Apollodorus. 
[Ste gives him ler hand to kiss, with her other arm about Ceasar). 

APOLLoDoRus. Cleopatra grows more womanly beautiful 
from week to week. 

cLeopaTRA. Truth, Apollodorus? 

APOLLODoRUs. Far, far short of the truth! Friend Rufio 
threw a pearl into the sea: Cesar fished up a diamond. 

cmsar. Cesar fished up a touch of rheumatism, my 
friend. Come: todinner! to dinner! [Tey move towards 
the table}. 

CLEOPATRA [shipping like a young fawn] Yes, to dinner. 
I have ordered such a dinner for you, Cesar ! 

cm@sar. Ay? What are we to have? 

CLEOPATRA. Peacocks’ brains. 

caesar [as if his mouth watered) Peacocks’ brains, Apol- 
lodorus ! 

APOLLODOoRUS, Not for me. I prefernightingales’ tongues. 
[He goes to one of the two covers set side by side). 

CLEOPATRA. Roast boar, Rufio! 

ruFIo [g/uttonously] Good! [He goes to the seat next 
Apollodorus, on his left), 

casar [looking at his seat, which is at the end of the table, 
to Ra’s left hand| What has become of my leathern cushion? 

CLEOPATRA [at the opposite end| 1 have got new ones for 
you. 

THE MAJOR-DOMO. These cushions, Cesar, are of Maltese 
gauze, stuffed with rose leaves. 

c#saR. Rose leaves! Am I a caterpillar? [He throws 
the cushions away and seats himself on the leather mattress 
underneath). 

CLEOPATRA. What a shame! My new cushions! 

THE Major-pomo [at Cesar’s elbow] What shall we serve 
to whet Czsar’s appetite? 

c#sar. What have you got? 


Act 1V Cesar and Cleopatra 179 


THE MAJOR-DOMO. Sea hedgehogs, black and white sea 
acorns, sea nettles, beccaficoes, purple shellfish — 

cmsar. Any oysters? 

THE MAJoR-DOMO. Assuredly. 

cesar. British oysters? 

THE MAJOR-DOMO [assenting| British oysters, Cesar. 

c#sar. Oysters, then. [Ze Major-Domo signs to a slave 
at each order; and the slave goes out to execute it]. I have 
been in Britain — that western land of romance —the last 
piece of earth on the edge of the ocean that surrounds the 
world. I went there in search of its famous pearls. The 
British pearl was a fable; but in searching for it I found 
the British oyster. 

APOLLODOoRUS. All posterity will bless you forit. [Zo the 
Major- Domo] Sea hedgehogs for me. 

ruFio. Is there nothing solid to begin with? 

THE Major-poMo. Fieldfares with asparagus — 

CLEOPATRA [interrupting | Fattened fowls! have some fat- 
tened fowls, Rufio. 

ruFIO. Ay, that will do. 

CLEOPATRA [greedily] Fieldfares for me. 

THE Major-DoMo. Cesar will deign to choose his wine? 
Sicilian, Lesbian, Chian — 

RUFIO [contemptuously| All Greek. 

APOLLODoRUs. Who would drink Roman wine when he 
could get Greek? Try the Lesbian, Cesar. 

c@#sar. Bring me my barley water. 

RUFIO [ with intense disgust} Ugh! Bring me my Faler- 
nian. [Zhe Falernian is presently brought to him]. 

CLEOPATRA [ pouting| It 1s waste of time giving you 
dinners, Cesar. My scullions would not condescend to 
your diet. 

cesar [relenting] Well, well: let us try the Lesbian. 
[Zhe Major-Domo fills Caesar’s goblet ; then Cleopatra’s and 
A poltodorus’s|. But when I return to Rome, I will make 
laws against these extravagances. I will even get the laws 
carried out. 


180 Three Plays for Puritans Act IV 


CLEOPATRA [coaxingly] Never mind. To-day you are to 
be like other people: idle, luxurious, and kind. [S4e 
stretches her hand to him along the table}, 

cesar. Well, for once I will sacrifice my comfort — 
[hissing her hand) there! [He takes a draught of wine]. Now 
are you satisfied? 

CLEOPATRA. And you no longer believe that I long for 
your departure for Rome? 

c#sar. I no longer believe anything. My brains are 
asleep. Besides, who knows whether I shall return to 
Rome? 

ruFIO [a/armed| How? Eh? What? 

cesar. What has Rome to shew me that I have not 
seen already? One year of Rome is like another, except 
that I grow older, whilst the crowd in the Appian Way is 
always the same age. 

APOLLODoRUs. It is no better here in Egypt. The old 
men, when they are tired of life, say ““We have seen 
everything except the source of the Nile.” 

c#sar [Ais imagination catching fire| And why not see 
that? Cleopatra: will you come with me and track the 
flood to its cradle in the heart of the regions of mystery? 
Shall we leave Rome behind us — Rome, that has achieved 
greatness only to learn how greatness destroys nations 
of men who are not great! Shall I make you a new 
kingdom, and build you a holy city there in the great 
unknown? 

CLEOPATRA [rapturously| Yes, yes. You shall. 

ruFio. Ay: now he will conquer Africa with two 
legions before we come to the roast boar. 

APOLLODoRUS. Come: no scoffing. ‘This is a noble 
scheme: in it Cesar is no longer merely the conquering 
soldier, but the creative poet-artist. Let us name the holy 
city, and consecrate it with Lesbian wine. 

c#sar. Cleopatra shall name it herself. 

CLEOPATRA. It shall be called Czsar’s Gift to his Be- 
loved. 


Act 1V Cesar and Cleopatra 181 


APOLLODORUs. No, no. Something vaster than that — 
something universal, like the starry firmament. 

c#sar [ prosaically| Why not simply The Cradle of the 
Nile? 

CLEOPATRA. No: the Nile is my ancestor; and he is a 
god. Oh! I have thought of something. The Nile shall 
name it himself. Let us call upon him. [Zo the Major- 
Domo] Send for him. [Zhe three men stare at one another; 
but the Major-Domo goes out as if be had received the most 
matter-of-fact order}. And [to the retinue] away with you 
all. 

The retinue withdraws, making obeisance. 

A priest enters, carrying a miniature sphinx with a tiny 
tripod before it. A morsel of incense is smoking in the tripod. 
The priest comes to the table and places the image in 
the middle of it. The light begins to change to the magenta 
purple of the Egyptian sunset, as if the god had brought a 
strange colored shadow with him. The three men are determined 
not to be impressed; but they feel curious in spite of themselves. 

czsar. What hocus-pocus 1s this? 

CLEOPATRA. You shall see. And it is not hocus-pocus. 
To do it properly, we should kill something to please him ; 
but perhaps he will answer Cesar without that if we spill 
some wine to him. 

APOLLODORUS [¢urning his head to look up over his shoulder 
at Ra| Why not appeal to our hawkheaded friend here? 

CLEOPATRA [wervously] Sh! He will hear you and be 
angry. 

RuUFIO [ phlegmatically| 'The source of the Nile is out of 
his district, I expect. 

cLeopaTRA. No: I will have my city named by nobody 
but my dear little sphinx, because it was in its arms that 
Cesar found me asleep. [S+e languishes at Cesar; then 
turns curtly to the priest], Go. I am a priestess, and have 
power to take your charge from you. [Zhe priest makes a 
reverence and goes out|. Now let us call on the Nile all 

“together. Perhaps he will rap on the table. 


182 Three Plays for Puritans Act IV 


casar. What! table rapping! Are such superstitions 
still believed in this year 707 of the Republic? 

CLEOPATRA. It is no superstition: our priests learn lots 
of things from the tables. Is it not so, Apollodorus? 

APOLLODORus. Yes: I profess myself a converted man. 
When Cleopatra is priestess, Apollodorus is devotee. Pro- 
pose the conjuration. 

CLEOPATRA. You must say with me “‘Send us thy voice, 
Father Nile.” 

ALL Four [folding their glasses together before the idol] 
Send us thy voice, Father Nile. 

The death cry of a manin mortal terror and agony answers 
them. Appalled, the men set down their glasses, and listen. 
Silence. The purple deepens in the sky. Ceasar, glancing at 
Cleopatra, catches her pouring out Ler wine before the god, with 
gleaming eyes, and mute assurances of gratitude and worship. 
Apollodorus springs up and runs to the edge of the roof to peer 
down and listen. 

caesar [/osking piercingly at Cleopatra] What was that? 

cLeopaTrRa [ petulantly| Nothing. They are beating some 
slave. 

c#sar. Nothing! 

ruFio. A man with a knife in him, I’l] swear. 

ca@sar [rising] A murder! 

APOLLODORUs [at the back, waving his hand for silence} S-sh! 
Silence. Did you hear that? 

cesar. Another cry? 

APOLLopoRUws [returning to the table] No,athud. Some- 
thing fell on the beach, I think. 

ruFIO [grizly, as Fe rises] Something with bones in it, 
eh? 

cm@sar [shuddering] Hush, hush, Ruflo. [He leaves the 
table and returns to the colonnade: Rufio following at his left 
elbow, and Apollodcrus at the other side]. 

CLEOPATRA [sti// in her place at the table] Will you leave 
me, Cesar? Apollodorus: are you going? 

APOLLODORUS. Faith, dearest Queen, my appetite is gone. 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 183 


c#saR. Go down to the courtyard, Apollodorus; and 
find out what has happened. 

Apollodorus nods and goes out, making for the staircase by 
which Rufio ascended. 

cLeopaTra. Your soldiers have killed somebody, perhaps. 
What does it matter? 

The murmur of a crowd rises from the beach below. Caesar 
and Rufio look at one another. 

c#sar. This must be seen to. [He is about to follow 
Apollodorus when Rufio stops him with a hand on his arm as 
Ftatateeta comes back by the far end of the roof, with dragging 
steps, a drowsy satiety in her eyes and in the corners of the 
bloodhound lips. For a moment Ceasar suspects that she is 
drunk with wine. Not so Rufio: he knows well the red vintage 
that has inebriated fer}. 

RUFIO [iz a low tone| ‘There is some mischief between 
those two. 

FTATATEETA. ‘he Queen looks again on the face of her 
servant. 

Cleopatra looks at her for a moment with an exultant re- 
flection of her murderous expression. Then she flings her arms 
round her; kisses ker repeatedly and savagely; and tears off 
er jewels and heaps them on her. The two men turn from the 
spectacle to look at one another. Ftatateeta drags herself sleepily 
to the altar; kneels before Ra; and remains there in prayer. 
Cesar goes to Cleopatra, leaving Rufio in the colonnade. 

c#sar [with searching earnestness} Cleopatra: what has 
happened? 

CLEOPATRA [i” mortal dread of him, but with her utmost 
cajolery} Nothing, dearest Caesar. [With sickly sweetness, 
her voice almost failing] Nothing. I am innocent. [S/e 
approaches him affectionately|. Dear Cesar: are you angry 
with me? Why do you look at me so? I have been here 
with you all the time. How can I know what has hap- 
pened? 

cmsar [refiectively| ‘That is true. 

CLEOPATRA [greatly relieved, trying to caress him] Of 


184 Three Plays for Puritans Act IV 


course it is true. [He does not respond to the caress}. You 
know it is true, Rufio. 

The murmur without suddenly swells to a roar and sub- 
sides. 

ruFio. I shall know presently. [Je makes for the altar 
in the burly trot that serves him for a stride, and touches 
Fratateeta on the shoulder]. Now, mistress: I shall want 
you. [He orders her, with a gesture, to go before him]. 

FTATATEETA [rising and glowering at him] My place is 
with the Queen. 

CLEOPATRA. She has done no harm, Rufio. 

czesar [to Rufio] Let her stay. 

RUFIO [sitting down on the altar] Very well. Then my 
place is here too; and you can see what is the matter for 
yourself. The city is in a pretty uproar, it seems, 

cmsar [with grave displeasure] Rufio: there is a time for 
obedience. 

ruFio. And there is a time for obstinacy. [He folds his 
arms doggedly). 

cmsar [fo Cleopatra] Send her away. 

CLEOPATRA [whining in Fer eagerness to propitiate tim] Yes, 
I will. I will do whatever you ask me, Cesar, always, be- 
cause I love you. Ftatateeta: go away. 

FTATATEETA. The Queen’s word is my will. I shall be 
at hand for the Queen’s call. [Se goes out past Ra, as she 
came). 

ruFio [ following her] Remember, Cesar, your body- 
guard also is within call. [He follows her out]. 

Cleopatra, presuming upon Caesars submission to Rufio, 
leaves the table and sits down on the bench in the colonnade. 

CLEOPATRA. Why do you allow Rufio to treat you so? 
You should teach him his place. 

cesar. Teach him to be my enemy, and to hide his 
thoughts from me as you are now hiding yours. 

cLeopaTra [/er fears returning] Why do you say that, 
Cesar? Indeed, indeed, I am not hiding anything. You 
are wrong to treat me like this. [Se stifles a sob]. I am 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 185 


only a child; and you turn into stone because you think 
some one has been killed. I cannot bear it. [S/e purposely 
breaks down and weeps. He looks at her with profound sadness 
and complete coldness. She lcoks up to see what effect she is 
producing. Seeing that he is unmoved, she sits up, pretending 
to struggle with her emotion and to put it bravely away]. But 
there: I know you hate tears: you shall not be troubled 
with them. I know you are not angry, but only sad; only 
Iam so silly, 1 cannot help being hurt when you speak 
coldly. Of course you are quite right: it is dreadful to 
think of anyone being killed or even hurt; and I hope 
nothing really serious has —[/er voice dies away under his 
contemptuous penetration). 

cesar. What has frightened you into this? What have 
you done? [4 trumpet sounds on the beach below]. Aha! 
that sounds like the answer. 

CLEOPATRA [sinking back trembling on the bench and cover- 
ing her face with her hands| I have not betrayed you, 
Cesar: I swear it. 

cm#saR. I know that. I have not trusted you. [He turus 
from her, and is about to go out when Apollodorus and 
Britannus drag in Lucius Septimius to him. Rufio follows. 
Cesar shudders|. Again, Pompey’s murderer! 

ruFIO. T’he town has gone mad, I think. They are for 
tearing the palace down and driving us into the sea straight 
away. We laid hold of this renegade in clearing them out 
of the courtyard. 

cmsar. Release him. [ZZey /et go his arms.| What has 
offended the citizens, Lucius Septimius? 

Lucius. What did you expect, Cwsar? Pothinus was a 
favorite of theirs. 

czzsar. What has happened to Pothinus? I set him 
free, here, not half an hour ago. Did they not pass him out? 

Lucius. Ay, through the gallery arch sixty feet above 
ground, with three inches of steel in his ribs. He is as 
dead as Pompey. We are quits now, as to killing — you 
and I, 


186 Three Plays for Puritans Act IV 


cesar [sfocked] Assassinated ! —our prisoner, our guest! 
[He turns reproachfully on Rufio) Rufio — 

RUFIO [emphatically — anticipating the question] Whoever 
did it was a wise man and a friend of yours [C/eopatra is 
greatly emboldened|; but none of us had a hand in it. So 
it is no use to frown at me. [Cesar turns and looks at Cleo- 
patra). 

CLEOPATRA [ v7o/ently — rising] He was slain by order of 
the Queen of Egypt. Iam not Julius Cesar the dreamer, 
who allows every slave to insult him. Rufio has said I did 
well: now the others shall judge me too. [S/e turns to the 
otters.| This Pothinus sought to make me conspire with 
him to betray Cesar to Achillas and Ptolemy. I refused; 
and he cursed me and came privily to Cesar to accuse me 
of his own treachery. J caught him in the act; and he in- 
sulted me — me, the Queen! to my face. Cesar would not 
avenge me: he spoke him fair and set him free. Was I 
right to avenge myself? Speak, Lucius. 

Lucius. I do not gainsay it. But you will get little 
thanks from Cesar for it. 

CLEOPATRA. Speak, Apollodorus. Was I wrong? 

APOLLopoRus. I have only one word of blame, most 
beautiful. You should have called upon me, your knight ; 
and in fair duel I should have slain the slanderer. 

CLEOPATRA [ passionately} I will be judged by your very 
slave, Cesar. Britannus: speak. Was I wrong? 

BRITANNUS. Were treachery, falsehood, and disloyalty 
left unpunished, society must become like an arena full of 
wild beasts, tearing one another to pieces. Cesar is in the 
wrong. 

cesar [with quiet bitterness] And so the verdict is against 
me, it seems. 

CLEOPATRA [vefemently| Listen to me, Caesar. If one 
man in all Alexandria can be found to say that I did wrong, 
I swear to have myself crucified on the door of the palace 
by my own slaves. 

csaR. If one man in all the world can be found, now 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 187 


or forever, to know that you did wrong, that man will 
have either to conquer the world as I have, or be crucified 
by it. [Zte uproar in the streets again reaches them]. Do you 
hear? These knockers at your gate are also believers in 
vengeance and in stabbing. You have slain their leader: 
it is right that they shall slay you. If you doubt it, ask 
your four counsellors here. And then in the name of that 
right [Ae emphasizes the word with great scorn] shall I not 
slay them for murdering their Queen, and be slain in my 
turn by their countrymen as the invader of their father- 
land? Can Rome do less then than slay these slayers, too, 
to shew the world how Rome avenges her sons and her 
honor. And so, to the end of history, murder shall breed 
murder, always in the name of right and honor and peace, 
until the gods are tired of blood and create a race that can 
understand. [Fierce uproar. Cleopatra becomes white with 
terror|. WHearken, you who must not be insulted. Go near 
enough to catch their words: you will find them bitterer 
than the tongue of Pothinus. [Laoftily, wrapping himself up 
in an impenetrable dignity| Let the Queen of Egypt now give 
her orders for vengeance, and take her measures for de- 
fence; for she has renounced Cesar. [He turns to go]. 

CLEOPATRA [terrified, running to him and falling on her knees} 
You will not desert me, Cesar. You will defend the palace. 

c#saR. You have taken the powers of life and death 
upon you. I am only a dreamer. 

CLEOPATRA. But they will kill me. 

c#sar. And why not? 

CLEOPATRA. In pity — 

c#sar. Pity! What! hasit come to this so suddenly, that 
nothing can save you now but pity? Dia it save Pothinus? 

Ste rises, wringing her hands, and goes back to the bench in 
despair. Apollodorus shews his sympathy with her by quietly 
posting himself behind the bench. The sky has by this time 
‘become the most vivid purple, and soon begins to change to a 
slowing pale orange, against which the colonnade and the great 
image shew darklier and darklier. 


188 Three Plays for Puritans = Act 1V 


ruFio. Czsar: enough of preaching. The enemy is at 
the gate. 

cmsar [turning on him and giving way to his wrath) Ay ; 
and what has held him baffled at the gate all these months? 
Was it my folly, as you deem it, or your wisdom? In this 
Egyptian Red Sea of blood, whose hand has held all your 
heads above the waves? [Turning on Cleopatra] And yet, 
when Cesar says to such an one, ‘‘Friend, go free,” you, 
clinging for your little life to my sword, dare steal out and 
stab him in the back? And you, soldiers and gentlemen, 
and honest servants as you forget that you are, applaud this 
assassination, and say ‘‘Czsar is in the wrong.” By the 
gods, I am tempted to open my hand and let you all sink 
into the flood. 

CLEOPATRA [with a ray of cunning hope] But, Cesar, if you 
do, you will perish yourself. 

Cesar’s eyes blaze. 

ruFio [greatly alarmed] Now, by great Jove, you filthy 
little Egyptian rat, that is the very word to make him walk 
out alone into the city and leave us here to be cut to pieces. 
[ Desperately, to C@sar] Will you desert us because we are 
a parcel of fools? I mean no harm by killing: I do it asa 
dog kills a cat, by instinct. We are all dogs at your heels ; 
but we have served you faithfully. 

cesar [re/enting] Alas, Rufio, my son, my son: as dogs 
we are like to perish now in the streets. 

apoLLoporus [at Ais post behind Cleopatra’s seat| Cesar: 
what you say has an Olympian ring in it: ic must be right ; 
for it is fine art. But I am still on the side of Cleopatra. 
If we must die, she shall not want the devotion of a man’s 
heart nor the strength of a man’s arm. 

CLEOPATRA [sobding] But I dont want to die. 

cmsar [sad/y] Oh, ignoble, ignoble! 

Lucius [coming forward between Casar and Cleopatra] 
Hearken to me, Cesar. It may be ignoble; but I also mean 
to live as long as I can. 

czsar. Well, my friend, you are likely to outlive Cesar. 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra 189 


Is it any magic of mine, think you, that has kept your 
army and this whole city at bay for so long? Yesterday, 
what quarrel had they with me that they should risk their 
lives against me? But today we have flung them down 
their hero, murdered; and now every man of them is set 
upon clearing out this nest of assassins — for such we are 
and no more. Take courage then; and sharpen your 
sword. Pompey’s head has fallen ; and Cesar’s head is ripe. 

APOLLoDoRUS. Does Cesar despair? 

cesAR [with infinite pride} He who has never hoped can 
never despair. Czsar, in good or bad fortune, looks his fate 
in the face. 

Lucius. Look it in the face, then; and it will smile as 
it always has on Cesar. 

czesaR [with involuntary haughtiness} Do you presume to 
encourage me? 

Lucius. I offer you my services. I will change sides if 
you will have me. 

ca@sar [suddenly coming down to earth again, and looking 
sharply at him, divining that there is something behind the offer] 
What! At this point? 

Lucius [ firmly] At this point. 

RUFIO. Do you suppose Cesar is mad, to trust you? 

Lucius. I do not ask him to trust me until he is vic- 
torious. I ask for my life, and for a command in Cesar’s 
army. And since Cesar is a fair dealer, I will pay in 
advance. 

c@sar. Pay! How? 

Lucius. With a piece of good news for you. 

Ceasar divines the news in a flash, 

ruFio. What news? 

caesar [with an elate and buoyant energy which makes Cleo- 
patra sit up and stare| What news! What news, did you 
say, my son Rufiot The relief has arrived: what other 
news remains for us? Is it not so, Lucius Septimius? 
Mithridates of Pergamos 1s on the march. 

Lucius. He has taken Pelusium. 


190 Three Plays for Puritans Act IV 


cmsar [delighted] Lucius Septimius: you are henceforth 
my officer. Rufio: the Egyptians must have sent every 
soldier from the city to prevent Mithridates crossing the 
Nile. There is nothing in the streets now but mob — mob! 

Lucius. It is so. Mithridates is marching by the great 
road to Memphis to cross above the Delta. Achillas will 
fight him there. 

cesar [all audacity] Achillas shall fight Cesar there. 
See, Rufio. [He runs to the table; snatches a napkin; and 
draws a plan on it with his finger dipped in wine, whilst Rufio and 
Lucius Septimius crowd about him to watch, all looking closely, 
for the light is now almost gone]. Here is the palace [ point- 
ing to his plan]: here is the theatre. You [to Rufio] take 
twenty men and pretend to go by that street [ pocuting it 
out}; and whilst they are stoning you, out go the cohorts 
by this and this. My streets are right, are they, Lucius? 

Lucius. Ay, that is the fig market — 

cmsar [too much excited to listen to tim] I saw them the 
day we arrived. Good! [He throws the napkin on the table, 
and comes down again into the colonnade\. Away, Britannus : 
tell Petronius that within an hour half our forces must take 
ship for the western lake. See to my horse and armor. 
[Britannus runs out.) With the rest, £ shall march round 
the lake and up the Nile to meet Mithridates. Away, 
Lucius; and give the word. 

Lucius hurries out after Britannus. 

RUFIO. Come: this is something like business, 

cesar [buoyantly] Is it not, my only son? [He claps his 
hands. The slaves hurry in to the table.) No more of this 
mawkish revelling: away with all this stuff: shut it out of 
my sight and be off with you. [Z4e slaves begin to remove 
the table; and the curtains are drawn, shutting in the colon- 
nade]. You understand about the streets, Rufio? 

ruFio. Ay, I think I do. I will get through them, at all 
events. 

The bucina sounds busily in the courtyard beneath. 

c#sar. Come, then: we must talk to the troops and 


Act IV Cesar and Cleopatra Ig! 


hearten them. You down tothe beach: I to the courtyard 
[He makes for the staircase]. 

CLEOPATRA [rising from her seat, where she has been quite 
neglected all this time, and stretching out her hands timidly to 
him| Ceesar. 

cesar [turning] Eh? 

CLEOPATRA. Have you forgotten me? 

cmsar [indulgently] I am busy now, my child, busy. 
When I return your affairs shall be settled. Farewell; and 
be good and patient. 

He goes, preoccupied and quite indifferent. She stands with 
clenched fists, in speechless rage and humiliation. 

RuFIOo. That game is played and lost, Cleopatra. ‘The 
woman always gets the worst of it. 

CLEOPATRA [Aaughtily| Go. Follow your master. 

ruFIO [in her ear, with rough familiarity] A word first. 
Tell your executioner that if Pothinus had been properly 
killed —in the throat—he would not have called out. 
Your man bungled his work. 

cLeopatra [exigmatically] How do you know it was a 
man? 

ruFIO [startled, and puzzled| It was not you: you were 
with us when it happened. [She turns her back scornfully on 
him. He shakes his head, and draws the curtains to go out. It 
is now a magnificent moonlit night. The table has been re- 
moved. Ftatateeta is seen in the light of the moon and stars, 
again in prayer before the white altar-stone of Ra. Rufio starts ; 
closes the curtains again softly; and says in a low voice to Cleo- 
patra| Was it she? with her own hand? 

CLEOPATRA [threateningly| Whoever it was, let my 
enemies beware of her. Look to it, Rufio, you who dare 
make the Queen of Egypt a fool before Cesar. 

RUFIO [looking grimly at her| I will look to it, Cleopatra. 
[He nods in confirmation of the promise, and slips out through 
the curtains, loosening his sword in its sheath as he goes). 

ROMAN SOLDIERS [im the courtyard below) Hail, Cesar! 


Hail, hail! 


192 Three Plays for Puritans = Act IV 


Cleopatra listens. The bucina sounds again, followed by 
several trumpets. 

CLEOPATRA [wringing her hands and calling| Ftatateeta. 
Ftatateeta. It is dark; and I am alone. Come to me. 
[Silence] Ftatateeta. [Louder] Ftatateeta. [Sélence. In a 
panic she snatches the cord and pulls the curtains apart). 

Ftatateeta is lying dead on the altar of Ra, with her throat 
cut. Her blood deluges the white stone. 


ACT V 


High noon. Festival and military pageant on the esplanade 
before the palace. In the east harbor Cesar’s galley, so gor- 
geously decorated that it seems to be rigged with flowers, is 
alongside the quay, close to the steps Apollodorus descended when 
he embarked with the carpet. A Roman guard is posted there in 
charge of a gangway, whence a red floorcloth is laid down the 
middle of the esplanade, turning off to the north opposite the 
central gate in the palace front, which shuts in the esplanade on 
the south side. The broad steps of the gate, crowded with Cleo- 
patra’s ladies, all in their gayest attire, are like a flower garden. 
Tle fagade is lined by Fer guard, oficered by the same gallants 
to whom Bel Affris announced the coming of Cesar six months 
before in tke old palace on the Syrian border. The north side 
is lined by Roman soldiers, with the townsfolk on tiptce behind 
them, peering over their heads at the cleared esplanade, in which 
the officers stroll about, chatting. Among these are Belzanor and 
the Persian; also the centurion, vinewood cudgel in hand, battle 
worn, thick-booted, and much outshone, both socially and decora- 
tively, by the Egyptian officers. 

Apollodorus makes his way through the townsfolk and calls 
to the officers from behind the Roman line. 

APOLLODORUS. Hullo! May I pass? 

CENTURION. Pass Apollodorus the Sicilian there! [7T7Ze 
soldiers let him through}. 

BELZANOR. Is Cesar at hand? 

Oo 


194 Three Plays for Puritans = Act V 


APoLLoporus. Not yet. He is still in the market place. 
I could not stand any more of the roaring of the soldiers! 
After half an hour of the enthusiasm of an army, one feels 
the need of a little sea air. 

PERSIAN. Tell us the news. Hath he slain the priests? 

APoLLoporus. Nothe. Theymet him in the market place 
with asheson their heads and their gods intheir hands. ‘They 
placed the gods at his feet. The only one that was worth 
looking at was Apis: a miracle of gold and ivory work. By 
my advice he offered the chief priest two talents for it. 

BELZANOR [appalled] Apis the all-knowing for two talents! 
What said the chief Priest? 

APOLLoDoRus. He invoked the mercy of Apis, and asked 
for five. 

BELZANOR. There will be famine and tempest in the land 
for this. 

PERSIAN. Pooh! Why did not Apis cause Czsar to be 
vanquished by Achillas? Any fresh news from the war, 
Apollodorus? 

APOLLODORUs. The little King Ptolemy was drowned. 

BELZANOR. Drowned! How? 

APOLLODoRUs. With the rest of them. Cesar attacked 
them from three sides at once and swept them into the 
Nile. Ptolemy’s barge sank. 

BELZANOR. A marvellous man, this Cesar! Will he come 
soon, think you? 

APOLLoDoRUus. He was settling the Jewish question when 
Pelett: 

A flourish of trumpets from the north, and commotion among 
the townsfolk, announces the approach of Cesar. 

persIAN. He has made short work of them. Here he 
comes. [He surries to his post in front of the Egyptian lines). 

BELZANOR [ following him] Ho there! Czsar comes. 

The soldiers stand at attention, and dress their lines. Apollo- 
dorus goes to the Egyptian line. 

centurion [/urrying to the gangway guard| Attention 
there! Czesar comes. 


Act V Cesar and Cleopatra 195 


Cesar arrives in state with Rufio: Britannus following. 
The soldiers receive him with enthusiastic shouting. 

czesar. I see my ship awaits me. The hour of Czsar’s 
farewell to Egypt has arrived. And now, Rufio, what 
remains to be done before I go? 

RuFIo [at /is left hand] You have not yet appointed a 
Roman governor for this province. 

caesar [looking whimsically at him, but speaking with perfect 
gravity] What say you to Mithridates of Pergamos, my 
reliever and rescuer, the great son of Eupator? 

ruFIO. Why, that you will want him elsewhere. Do you 
forget that you have some three or four armies to conquer 
on your way home? 

cmsar. Indeed! Well, what say you to yourself? 

RuFIO [éacredulously] I! Ia governor! What are you 
dreaming of ? Do you not know that I am only the son of 
a freedman? 

cesar [affectionately] Has not Cesar called you his son? 
[Calling to the whole assembly} Peace awhile there; and 
hear me. 

THE ROMAN SOLDIERS. Hear Cesar. 

cz#sar. Hear the service, quality, rank and name of the 
Roman governor. By service, Czsar’s shield ; by quality, 
Cesar’s friend ; by rank, a Roman soldier. [Zhe Roman 
soldiers give a triumphant shout]. By name, Rufio. [They 
shout again). 

ruFIO [kissing Ca@sar’s hand| Ay: I am Cesar’s shield; 
but of what use shall I be when I am no longer on Cesar’s 
arm? Well, no matter — [He becomes husky, and turns away 
to recover himself |. 

c#saR. Where is that British Islander of mine? 

BRITANNUS [coming forward on Cesar’s right hand| Here, 
Cesar. 

c#saR. Who bade you, pray, thrust yourself into the 
battle of the Delta, uttering the barbarous cries of your 
native land, and affirming yourself a match for any four of 
the Egyptians, to whom you applied unseemly epithets? 


196 Three Plays for Puritans = Act V 


BRITANNUS. Cesar: I ask you to excuse the language that 
escaped me in the heat of the moment. 

cesar. And how did you, who cannot swim, cross the 
canal with us when we stormed the camp? 

BRITANNUS. Czesar: I clung to the tail of your horse. 

cesar. These are not the deeds of a slave, Britannicus, 
but of a free man. 

BRITANNUS. Czsar: I was born free. 

cSaR. But they call you Cesar’s slave. 

BRITANNUS. Only as Casar’s slave have I found real 
freedom. 

cEsaR [moved] Well said. Ungrateful that I am, I was 
about to set you free; but now I will not part from you 
for a million talents. [He claps him friendly on the shoulder. 
Britannus, gratified, but a trifle shamefaced, takes his hand 
and kisses it sheepishly]. 

BELZANOR [to the Persian] ‘This Roman knows how to 
make men serve him. 

PERSIAN. Ay: men too humble to become dangerous 
rivals to him. 

BELZANOR. O subtle one! O cynic! 

cesar [seeing Apollodorus in the Egyptian corner, and 
calling to him| Apollodorus: I leave the art of Egypt in 
your charge. Remember: Rome loves art and will en- 
courage it ungrudgingly. 

APOLLODORUs. I understand, Cesar. Rome will produce 
no art itself; but it will buy up and take away whatever 
the other nations produce. 

c#sar. What! Rome produce no art! Is peace not an 
art? is war not an art? is government not an art? is 
civilization not an art? All these we give you in exchange 
for a few ornaments. You will have the best of the 
bargain. [Turning to Rufio] And now, what else have I 
to do before I embark? [Trying to recollect} There 1s 
something I cannot remember: what can it be? Well, 
well: it must remain undone: we must not waste this 
favorable wind. Farewell, Rufio. 


Act V Cesar and Cleopatra 197 


RUFIO. Casar: I am loth to let you go to Rome with- 
out your shield. ‘There are too many daggers there. 

c#saR. It matters not: I shall finish my life’s work on 
my way back; and then I shall have lived long enough. 
Besides: I have always disliked the idea of dying: I had 
rather be killed. Farewell. 

RUFIO [with a sigh, raising his hands and giving Cesar up 
as incorrigible) Farewell. [TZtey shake hands]. 

c#sar [waving his hand to Apollodorus| Farewell, Apollo- 
dorus, and my friends, all of you. Aboard! 

Tle gangway is run out from the quay to the ship. As 
Caesar moves towards it, Cleopatra, cold and tragic, cunningly 
dressed in black, without ornaments or decoration of any kind, 
and thus making a striking figure among the brilliantly dressed 
bevy of ladies as she passes through it, comes from the palace 
and stands on the steps. Ca@sar does not see her until she speaks. 

CLEOPATRA. Has Cleopatra no part in this leavetaking? 

c#sar [enlightened] Ah, I knew there was something. 
[Zo Rufio] How could you let me forget her, Rufio? 
[ Hastening to her| Had I gone without seeing you, I should 
never have forgiven myself. [He takes er hands, and brings 
Ler into the middle of the esplanade. She submits stonily]. Is 
this mourning for me? 

CLEOPATRA. No. 

cz@sar [remorsefully| Ah, that was thoughtless of me! 
It is for your brother. 

CLEOPATRA. No. 

czesaR. For whom, then? 

CLEOPATRA. Ask the Roman governor whom you have 
left us. 

c#sar. Rufio? 

CLEOPATRA. Yes: Rufio. [S4#e points at him with deadly 
scorn|. He who is to rule here in Casar’s name, in Cesar’s 
way, according to Cesar’s boasted laws of life. 

c#SaR [dubiously] He is to rule as he can, Cleopatra. 
He has taken the work upon him, and will do it in his 
own way. 


198 Three Plays for Puritans = Act V 


CLEOPATRA. Not in your way, then? 

C#SAR [ puzzled| What do you mean by my way? 

CLEOPATRA. Without punishment. Without revenge. 
Without judgment. 

cSAR [approvingly] Ay: that is the right way, the great 
way, the only possible way in the end. [Zo Rufio] Believe 
it, Rufio, if you can. 

ruFIO. Why, I believe it, Cesar. You have convinced 
me of it long ago. But look you. You are sailing for 
Numidia to-day. Now tell me: if you meet a hungry lion 
there, you will not punish it for wanting to eat you? 

CESAR [wondering what he is driving at| No. 

RUFIO. Nor revenge upon it the blood of those it has 
already eaten. 

cmsar. No. 

ruFIo. Nor judge it for its guiltiness. 

cesar. No. 

RUFIO. What, then, will you do to save your life from it? 

czESAR [ promptly] Kill it, man, without malice, just as it 
would kill me. What does this parable of the lion mean? 

RuUFIO. Why, Cleopatra had a tigress that killed men at 
her bidding. I thought she might bid it kill you some day. 
Well, had I not been Ceasar’s pupil, what pious things 
might I not have done to that tigress! I might have 
punished it. I might have revenged Pothinus on it. 

c#SAR [interjects] Pothinus! 

RUFIO [continuing| I might have judged it. But I put 
all these follies behind me; and, without malice, only cut 
its throat. And that is why Cleopatra comes to you in 
mourning. 

CLEOPATRA [ve/emently| He has shed the blood of my 
servant Ftatateeta. On your head be it as upon his, Cesar, 
if you hold him free of it. 

cesar [energetically] On my head be it, then; for it was 
well done. Rufio: had you set yourself in the seat of the 
judge, and with hateful ceremonies and appeals to the gods 
handed that woman over to some hired executioner to be 


Act V Cesar and Cleopatra 199 


slain before the people in the name of justice, never again 
would I have touched your hand without a shudder. But 
this was natural slaying: I feel no horror at it. 

Rufio, satisfied, nods at Cleopatra, mutely inviting her to 
mark that. 

CLEOPATRA [ pettish and childish in her impotence] No: not 
when a Roman slays an Egyptian. All the world will now 
see how unjust and corrupt Cesar is. 

c#sar [taking her hands coaxingly| Come: do not be 
angry with me. I am sorry for that poor Totateeta. [S4e 
laughs in spite of herself}. Aha! you are laughing. Does 
that mean reconciliation? 

CLEOPATRA [angry with herself for laughing| No,no,NO!! 
But it is so ridiculous to hear you call her Totateeta. 

c#saR. What! As much a child as ever, Cleopatra! 
Have I not made a woman of you after all? 

CLEOPATRA. Oh, it is you who are a great baby: you 
make me seem silly because you will not behave seriously. 
But you have treated me badly; and I do not forgive you. 

cz#saR. Bid me farewell. 

CLEOPATRA. I will not. 

CESAR [coaxing] I will send you a beautiful present from 
Rome. 

CLEOPATRA [ prowd/y| Beauty from Rome to Egyptindeed! 
What can Rome give me that Egypt cannot give me? 

APOLLODORUS. ‘I‘hat is true, Cesar. If the present is 
to be really beautiful, I shall have to buy it for you in 
Alexandria. 

c#saR. You are forgetting the treasures for which Rome 
is most famous, my friend. You cannot buy them in 
Alexandria. 

APOLLODORuS. What are they, Cesar? 

c#saR. Her sons. Come, Cleopatra: forgive me and 
bid me farewell; and I will send you a man, Roman from 
head to heel and Roman of the noblest; not old and ripe 
for the knife; not lean in the arms and cold in the heart; 
not hiding a bald head under his conqueror’s laurels; not 


200 Three Plays for Puritans Act V 


stooped with the weight of the world on his shoulders ; 
but brisk and fresh, strong and young, hoping in the 
morning, fighting in the day, and revelling in the evening. 
Will you take such an one in exchange for Cesar? 

CLEOPATRA [ pa/pitating| His name, his name? 

c#sar. Shall it be Mark Antony? [SZe throws herselr 
into his arms). 

RUFIO, You are a bad hand at a bargain, mistress, if you 
will swop Cesar for Antony. 

ca@sar. So now you are satisfied. 

CLEOPATRA. You will not forget. 

czzsaR. I will not forget. Farewell: I do not think we 
shall meet again. Farewell. [He kisses fer on the forehead. 
She is much affected and begins to sniff. He embarks}. 

THE ROMAN SOLDIERS [as 4e sets fis foot on the gangway| 
Hail, Cesar; and farewell! 

He reaches the ship and returns Rufio’s wave of the hand. 

APOLLODoRUus [to Cleopatra) No tears, dearest Queen: 
they stab your servant to the heart. He will return some 
day. 

CLEOPATRA. I hope not. But I cant help crying, all the 
same. [She waves her handkerchief to Caesar; and the ship 
begins to move}. : 

THE ROMAN SOLDIERS [drawing their swords and raising 
them in the air| Hail, Cesar! 


NOTES TO CAHSAR AND CLEOPATRA 


Cleopatra’s Cure for Baldness. 


For the sake of conciseness in a hurried situation I have 
made Cleopatra recommend rum. This, I am afraid, is an 
anachronism: the only real one in the play. To balance 
it, I give a couple of the remedies she actually believed in. 
They are quoted by Galen from Cleopatra’s book on 
Cosmetic. 

‘“‘For bald patches, powder red sulphuret of arsenic and 
take it up with oak gum, as much as it will bear. Put on 
a rag and apply, having soaped the place well first. I have 
mixed the above with a foam of nitre, and it worked well.” 

Several other receipts follow, ending with: ‘The fol- 
lowing is the best of all, acting for fallen hairs, when 
applied with oil or pomatum; acts also for falling off of 
eyelashes or for people getting bald all over. It is wonder- 
ful. Of domestic mice burnt, one part; of vine rag burnt, 
one part; of horse’s teeth burnt, one part; of bear’s grease 
one; of deer’s marrow one; of reed bark one. To be 
pounded when dry, and mixed with plenty of honey til 
it gets the consistency of honey; then the bear’s grease and 
marrow to be mixed (when melted), the medicine to be put 
in a brass flask, and the bald part rubbed til it sprouts.” 

Concerning these ingredients, my fellow-dramatist 
Gilbert Murray, who, as a Professor of Greek, has applied 
to classical antiquity the methods of high scholarship (my 


202 Cesar and Cleopatra 
own method is pure divination), writes to me as follows: 


‘‘Some of this I dont understand, and possibly Galen did 
not, as he quotes your heroine’s own language. Foam of 
nitre is, I think, something like soapsuds. Reed bark is an 
odd expression. It might mean the outside membrane of 
a reed: I do not know what it ought to be called. In the 
burnt mice receipt I take it that you first mixed the solid 
powders with honey, and then added the grease. I expect 
Cleopatra preferred it because in most of the others you 
have to lacerate the skin, prick it, or rub it till it bleeds. I 
do not know what vine rag is. I translate literally.” 


Apparent Anachronisms. 


The only way to write a play which shall convey to the 
general public an impression of antiquity is to make the 
characters speak blank verse and abstain from reference to 
steam, telegraphy, or any of the material conditions of their 
existence. The more ignorant men are, the more con- 
vinced are they that their little parish and their little 
chapel is an apex to which civilization and philosophy has 
painfully struggled up the pyramid of time from a desert 
of savagery. Savagery, they think, became barbarism ; 
barbarism became ancient civilization; ancient civiliza- 
tion became Pauline Christianity; Pauline Christianity 
became Roman Catholicism; Roman Catholicism became 
the Dark Ages; andthe Dark Ages were finally enlightened 
by the Protestant instincts of the English race. ‘The whole 
process is summed up as Progress with a capital P. And 
any elderly gentleman of Progressive temperament will 
testify that the improvement since he was a boy is enormous. 

Now if we count the generations of Progressive elderly 
gentlemen since, say, Plato, and add together the successive 
enormous improvements to which each of them has testified, 
it will strike us at once as an unaccountable fact that the 
world, instead of having been improved in 67 generations 
out of all recognition, presents, on the whole, a rather less 


Notes 203 


dignified appearance in Ibsen’s Enemy of the People than 
in Plato’s Republic. And in truth, the period of time 
covered by history is far too short to allow of any per- 
ceptible progress in the popular sense of Evolution of the 
Human Species. The notion that there has been any such 
Progress since Czsar’s time (less than 20 centuries) 1s too 
absurd for discussion. All the savagery, barbarism, dark 
ages and the rest of it of which we have any record as exist- 
ing in the past, exists at the present moment. A British 
carpenter or stonemason may point out that he gets twice 
as much money for his labor as his father did in the same 
trade, and that his suburban house, with its bath, its cottage 
piano, its drawingroom suite, and its album of photographs, 
would have shamed the plainness of his grandmother’s. But 
the descendants of feudal barons, living in squalid lodgings 
on a Salary of fifteen shillings a week instead of in castles 
on princely revenues, do not congratulate the world on 
the change. Such changes, in fact, are not to the point. 
It has been known, as far back as our records go, that man 
running wild in the woods is different from man kennelled 
in a city slum; that a dog seems to understand a shepherd 
better than a hewer of wood and drawer of water can 
understand an astronomer; and that breeding, gentle 
nurture and luxurious food and shelter will produce a kind 
of man with whom the common laborer is socially incom- 
patible. The same thing is true of horses and dogs. Now 
there is clearly room for great changes in the world by 
increasing the percentage of individuals who are carefully 
bred and gently nurtured, even to finally making the most 
of every man and woman born. But that possibility existed 
in the days of the Hittites as much as it does today. It 
does not give the slightest real support to the common 
assumption that the civilized contemporaries of the Hittites 
were unlike their civilized descendants today. 

This would appear the tritest commonplace if it were not 
that the ordinary citizen’s ignorance of the past combines 
with his idealization of the present to mislead and flatter 


204 Cesar and Cleopatra 


him. Our latest book on the new railway across Asia 
describes the dulness of the Siberian farmer and the 
vulgar pursepride of the Siberian man of business without 
the least consciousness that the string of contemptuous 
instances given might have been saved by writing simply 
‘‘Farmers and provincial plutocrats in Siberia are exactly 
what they are in England.” ‘The latest professor descant- 
ing on the civilization of the Western Empire in the fifth 
century feels bound to assume, in the teeth of his own 
researches, that the Christian was one sort of animal and 
the Pagan another. It might as well be assumed, as indeed 
it generally is assumed by implication, that a murder com- 
mitted with a poisoned arrow is different from a murder 
committed with a Mauser rifle. All such notions are 
illusions. Go back to the first syllable of recorded time, 
and there you will find your Christian and your Pagan, 
your yokel and your poet, helot and hero, Don Quixote 
and Sancho, Tamino and Papageno, Newton and bushman 
unable to count eleven, all alive and contemporaneous, 
and all convinced that they are the heirs of all the ages 
and the privileged recipients of THE truth (all others dam- 
nable heresies), just as you have them today, flourishing in 
countries each of which is the bravest and best that ever 
sprang at Heaven’s command from out the azure main. 
Again, there is the illusion of “increased command over 
Nature,” meaning that cotton is cheap and that ten miles 
of country road on a bicycle have replaced four on foot. 
But even if man’s increased command over Nature included 
any increased command over himself (the only sort of 
command relevant to his evolution into a higher being), 
the fact remains that it is only by running away from the 
increased command over Nature to country places where 
Nature is still in primitive command over Man that he can 
recover from the effects of the smoke, the stench, the foul 
air, the overcrowding, the racket, the ugliness, the dirt 
which the cheap cotton costs us. If manufacturing activity 
means Progress, the town must be more advanced than the 


Notes 205 


country ; and the field laborers and village artizans of 
today must be much less changed from the servants of 
Job than the proletariat of modern London from the pro- 
letariat of Czsar’s Rome. Yet the cockney proletarian 1s 
so inferior to the village laborer that it is only by steady 
recruiting from the country that London is kept alive. This 
does not seem as if the change since Job’s time were Pro- 
gress in the popular sense: quite the reverse. The common 
stock of discoveries in physics has accumulated a little: 
that is all. 

One more illustration. Is the Englishman prepared to 
admit that the American is his superior as a human being? 
I ask this question because the scarcity of labor in America 
relatively to the demand for it has led to a development of 
machinery there, and a consequent ‘increase of command 
over Nature’? which makes many of our English methods 
appear almost medieval to the up-to-date Chicagoan. This 
means that the American has an advantage over the 
Englishman of exactly the same nature that the English- 
man has over the contemporaries of Cicero. Is the English- 
man prepared to draw the same conclusion in both cases? 
I think not. The American, of course, will draw it cheer- 
fully; but I must then ask him whether, since a modern 
negro has a greater ‘“‘command over Nature” than Wash- 
ington had, we are also to accept the conclusion, involved 
in his former one, that humanity has progressed from 
Washington to the fiz de siécle negro. 

Finally, I would point out that if life is crowned by its 
success and devotion in industrial organization and inge- 
nuity, we had better worship the ant and the bee (as 
moralists urge us to do in our childhood), and humble 
ourselves before the arrogance of the birds of Aristophanes. 

My reason then for ignoring the popular conception of 
Progress in Cesar and Cleopatra is that there is no reason 
to suppose that any Progress has taken place since their 
time. But even if I shared the popular delusion, I do not 
see that I could have made any essential difference in the 


206 Cesar and Cleopatra 


play. I can only imitate humanity as I know it. Nobody 
knows whether Shakespear thought that ancient Athenian 
joiners, weavers, or bellows menders were any different 
from Elizabethan ones; but it is quite certain that he 
could not have made them so, unless, indeed, he had 
played the literary man and made Quince say, not “Is all 
our company here?” but “ Bottom: was not that Socrates 
that passed us at the Pireus with Glaucon and Pole- 
marchus on his way to the house of Kephalus.’”’ And 
sO on. 


Cleopatra. 


Cleopatra was only sixteen when Cesar went to 
Egypt; but in Egypt sixteen is a riper age than it is in 
England. The childishness I have ascribed to her, as far 
as it is childishness of character and not lack of experience, 
is not a matter of years. It may be observed in our own 
climate at the present day in many women of fifty. It isa 
mistake to suppose that the difference between wisdom and 
folly has anything to do with the difference between phy- 
sical age and physical youth. Some women are younger at 
seventy than most women at seventeen. 

It must be borne in mind, too, that Cleopatra was a 
queen, and was therefore not the typical Greek-cultured, 
educated Egyptian lady of her time. To represent her by 
any such type would be as absurd as to represent George 
IV by a type founded on the attainments of’ Sir Isaac 
Newton. It is true that an ordinarily well educated Alex- 
andrian girl of her time would no more have believed 
bogey stories about the Romans than the daughter of a 
modern Oxford professor would believe them about the 
Germans (though, by the way, it 1s possible to talk great 
nonsense at Oxford about foreigners when we are at war 
with them). But I do not feel bound to believe that 
Cleopatra was well educated. Her father, the illustrious 
Flute Blower, was not at all a parent of the Oxford pro- 
fessor type. And Cleopatra was a chip of the old block. 


Notes 207 


Britannus. 


I find among those who have read this play in manu- 
script a strong conviction that an ancient Briton could not 
possibly have been like a modern one. I see no reason to 
adopt this curious view. It is true that the Roman and 
Norman conquests must have fcr a time disturbed the 
normal British type produced by theclimate. But Britannus, 
born before these events, represents the unadulterated 
Briton who fought Cesar and impressed Roman observers 
much as we should expect the ancestors of Mr Podsnap 
to impress the cultivated Italians of their time. 

I am told that it is not scientific to treat national char- 
acter as a product of climate. This only shews the wide 
difference between common knowledge and the intellectual 
game called science. We have men of exactly the same 
stock, and speaking the same language, growing in Great 
Britain, in Ireland, and in America. The result is three 
of the most distinctly marked nationalities under the sun. 
Racial characteristics are quite another matter. The 
difference between a Jew and a Gentile has nothing to do 
with the difference between an Englishman and a German. 
The characteristics of Britannus are local characteristics, 
not race characteristics. In an ancient Briton they would, 
I take it, be exaggerated, since modern Britain, disforested, 
drained, urbanified and consequently cosmopolized, is 
presumably less characteristically British than Czsar’s 
Britain. 

And again I ask does anyone who, in the light of a 
competent knowledge of his own age, has studied history 
from contemporary documents, believe that 67 generations 
of promiscuous marriage have made any appreciable differ- 
ence in the human fauna of these isles? Certainly I do 
not, 


208 Cesar and Cleopatra 


Julius Cesar. 


As to Cesar himself, I have purposely avoided the usual 
anachronism of going to Cesar’s books, and concluding 
that the style is the man. That is only true of authors 
who have the specific literary genius, and have practised 
long enough to attain complete self-expression in letters. 
It is not true even on these conditions in an age when 
literature is conceived as a game of style, and not as a 
vehicle of self-expression by the author. Now Cesar was 
an amateur stylist writing books of travel and campaign 
histories in a style so impersonal that the authenticity of the 
later volumes is disputed. They reveal some of his qualities 
just as the Voyage of a Naturalist Round the World 
reveals some of Darwin’s, without expressing his private 
personality. An Englishman reading them would say that 
Cesar was a man of great common sense and good taste, 
meaning thereby a man without originality or moral 
courage. 

In exhibiting Czsar as a much more various person than 
the historian of the Gallic wars, I hope I have not suc- 
cumbed unconsciously to the dramatic illusion to which 
all great men owe part of their reputation and some the 
whole of it. I admit that reputations gained in war are 
specially questionable. Able civilians taking up the pro- 
fession of arms, like Cesar and Cromwell, in middle age, 
have snatched all its laurels from opponent commanders 
bred to it, apparently because capable persons engaged in 
military pursuits are so scarce that the existence of two of 
them at the same time in the same hemisphere is extremely 
rare. ‘he capacity of any conqueror is therefore more likely 
than not to be an illusion produced by the incapacity of his 
adversary. At all events, Cesar might have won his battles 
without being wiser than Charles XII or Nelson or Joan 
of Arc, who were, like most modern “self-made”? mill- 
ionaires, half-witted geniuses, enjoying the worship accorded 


Notes 30g 
by all races to certain forms of insanity. But Czsar’s 
victories were only advertisements for an eminence that 
would never have become popular without them. Cesar 
is greater off the battle field than on it. Nelson off his 
quarterdeck was so quaintly out of the question that when 
his head was injured at the battle of the Nile, and his con- 
duct became for some years openly scandalous, the difference 
was not important enough to be noticed. It may, however, 
be said that peace hath herillusory reputations no less than 
war. Andit is certainly true that in civil life mere capacity 
for work —the power of killing a dozen secretaries under you, 
so to speak, as a life-or-death courier kills horses — enables 
men with common ideas and superstitions to distance all 
competitors in the strife of political ambition. It was this 
power of work that astonished Cicero as the most prodigious 
of Czsar’s gifts, as it astonished later observers in Napoleon 
before it wore him out. How if Cesar were nothing but 
a Nelson and a Gladstone combined ! a prodigy of vitality 
without any special quality of mind! nay, with ideas 
that were worn out before he was born, as Nelson’s and 
Gladstone’s were! I have considered that possibility too, 
and rejected it. I cannot cite all the stories about Cesar 
which seem to me to shew that he was genuinely original ; 
but let me at least point out that I have been careful to 
attribute nothing but originality to him. Originality gives 
a man an air of frankness, generosity, and magnanimity by 
enabling him to estimate the value of truth, money, or 
success in any particular instance quite independently of 
convention and moral generalization. He therefore will 
not, in the ordinary Treasury bench fashion, tell a lie 
which everybody knows to be a lie (and consequently 
expects him as a matter of good taste to tell). His lies 
are not found out: they pass for candors. He under- 
stands the paradox of money, and gives it away when he 
can get most for it: in other words, when its value is least, 
which is just when a common man tries hardest to get it. 
He knows that the real moment of success is not the 

P 


3210 Cesar and Cleopatra 


moment apparent to the crowd. Hence, in order to pro- 
duce an impression of complete disinterestedness and 
magnanimity, he has only to act with entire selfishness ; 
and this is perhaps the only sense in which a man can be 
said to be waturally great. It is in this sense that I have 
represented Cesar as great. Having virtue, he has no need 
of goodness. He is neither forgiving, frank, nor generous, 
because a man who is too great to resent has nothing to 
forgive ; a man who says things that other people are afraid 
to say need be no more frank than Bismarck was; and 
there is no generosity in giving things you do not want to 
people of whom you intend to make use. This distinction 
between virtue and goodness is not understood in England: 
hence the poverty of our drama in heroes. Our stage 
attempts at them are mere goody-goodies. Goodness, in 
its popular British sense of self-denial, implies that man is 
vicious by nature, and that supreme goodness is supreme 
martyrdom. Not sharing that pious opinion, I have not 
given countenance to it in any of my plays. In this I 
follow the precedent of the ancient myths, which repre- 
sent the hero as vanquishing his enemies, not in fair fight, 
but with enchanted sword, superequine horse and magical 
invulnerability, the possession of which, from the vulgar 
moralistic point of view, robs his exploits of any merit 
whatever. 

As to Czsar’s sense of humor, there is no more reason 
to assume that he lacked it than to assume that he was deaf 
or blind. It is said that on the occasion of his assassination 
by a conspiracy of moralists (it is always your moralist who 
makes assassination a duty, on the scaffold or off it), he 
defended himself until the good Brutus struck him, when 
he exclaimed ‘ What! you too, Brutus!” and disdained 
further fight. If this be true, he must have been an incor- 
rigible comedian. But even if we waive this story, or 
accept the traditional sentimental interpretation of it, there 
is still abundant evidence of his lightheartedness and 
adventurousness. Indeed it is clear from his whole history 


Notes oA 


that what has been called his ambition was an instinct for 
exploration. He had much more of Columbus and Franklin 
in him than of Henry V. 

However, nobody need deny Cesar a share, at least, of 
the qualities I have attributed to him. All men, much 
more Julius Czsars, possess all qualities in some degree. 
The really interesting question is whether I am right in 
assuming that the way to produce an impression of great- 
ness is by exhibiting a man, not as mortifying his nature 
by doing his duty, in the manner which our system of put- 
ting little men into great positions (not having enough 
great men in our influential families to go round) forces us 
to inculcate, but as simply doing what he naturally wants 
to do. For this raises the question whether our world has 
not been wrong in its moral theory for the last 2,500 years 
or so. [t must be a constant puzzle to many of us that the 
Christian era, so excellent in its intentions, should have 
been practically such a very discreditable episode in the 
history of the race. I doubt if this is altogether due to 
the vulgar and sanguinary sensationalism of our religious 
legends, with their substitution of gross physical torments 
and public executions for the passion of humanity. Islam, 
substituting voluptuousness for torment (a merely super- 
ficial difference, it is true) has done no better. It may have 
been the failure of Christianity to emancipate itself from 
expiatory theories of moral responsibility, guilt, innocence, 
reward, punishment, and the rest of it, that baffled its 
intention of changing the world. But these are bound up 
in all philosophies of creation as opposed to cosmism. 
They may therefore be regarded as the price we pay 
for popular religion. 


CAPTAIN BRASSBOUND'S 
CONVERSION 


xX 


HinDHEaD, 1899. 


CAPTAIN BRASSBOUND'S 
CONVERSION 


ACT I 


Ox the heights overlooking the harbor of Mogador, a seaport 
on the west coast of Morocco, the missionary, in the coolness of 
the late afternoon, is following the precept of Voltaire by culti- 
vating his garden. He is an elderly Scotchman, spiritually a 
little weatherbeaten, as having to navigate his creed in strange 
waters crowded with other craft, but still a convinced son of 
the Free Church and the North African Mission, with a faith- 
ful brown eye, and a peaceful soul. Physically a wiry small- 
knit man, well tanned, clean shaven, with delicate resolute 
features and a twinkle of mild humor. He wears the sun helmet 
and pagri, the neutral-tinted spectacles, and the white canvas 
Spanish sand shoes of the modern Scotch missionary; but instead 
of a cheap tourist’s suit from Glasgow, a grey flannel shirt with 
white collar, a green sailor knot tie with a cheap pin in it, he 
wears a suit of clean white linen, acceptable in color, if not in 
cut, to the Moorish mind. 

The view from the garden includes much Atlantic Ocean 
and a long stretch of sandy coast to the south, swept by the north 
east trade wind, and scantily nourishing a few stunted pepper 
trees, mangy palms, and tamarisks. The prospect ends, as fur 
as the land is concerned, in little bills that come nearly to the 
sea: rudiments, these, of the Atlas Mountains. The missionary, 
having had daily opportunities of looking at this seascape for 


216 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


thirty years or so, pays no heed to it, being absorbed in trimming 
a huge red geranium bush, to English eyes unnaturally big, 
which, with a dusty smilax or two, is the sole product of bis pet 
fiswer-bed. He is sitting to his work on a Moorish stool. In 
the middle of the garden there is a pleasant seat in the 
shade of a tamarisk tree. The house is in the south west 
corner of the garden, and the geranium bush in the north east 
corner. 

At the garden-door of the house there appears presently a 
man who is clearly no barbarian, being in fact a less agreeable 
product peculiar to modern commercial civilization. His frame 
and flesh are those of an ill-nourished lad of seventeen; but bis 
age is inscrutable: only the absence of any sign of grey in bis 
mud colored hair suggests that he is at all events probably under 
forty, without prejudice to the possibility of his being under 
twenty. A Londoner would recognize him at once as an extreme 
but hardy specimen of the abortion produced by nurture in a city 
slum. His utterance, affectedly pumped and hearty, and natu- 
rally vulgar and nasal, is ready and fluent: nature, a Board 
School education, and some kerbstone practice having made him 
a bit of an orator. His dialect, apart from its base nasal 
delivery, is not unlike that of smart London society in its 
tendency to replace diphthongs by vowels (sometimes rather 
prettily) and to shufie all the traditional vowel pronunciations. 
He pronounces ow as ah, and t as aw, using the ordinary ow for 
0, i for a, & for i, and @ for a, with this reservation, that 
when any vowel is followed by an r, he signifies its presence, 
not by pronouncing the r, which he never does under these cir- 
cumstances, but by prolonging and modifying the vowel, some- 
times even to the extreme degree of pronouncing it properly. As 
to his yol for 1 (a compendious delivery of the provincial eh-al), 
and other metropolitan refinements, amazing to all but cock- 
neys, they cannot be indicated, save in the above imperfect 
manner, without the aid of a phonetic alphabet. He is dressed 
in somebody else’s very second best as a coastguardsman, and 
gives himself the airs of a stage tar with sufficient success to 
pass as a possible fish porter of bad character in casual employ- 


Act 1 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 217 


ment during busy times at Billingsgate. His manner shews an 
earnest disposition to ingratiate himself with the missionary, prob- 
ably for some dishonest purpose. 

THE MAN. Awtenoon, Mr Renkin. [Zhe missionary sits 
up quickly, and turns, resigning himself dutifully to the inter- 
ruption]. Yr honor’s eolth. 

RANKIN [reservedly| Good afternoon, Mr Drinkwotter. 

DRINKWATER. Youre not best pleased to be hinterrapted 
in yr bit o gawdnin baw the lawk o me, gavner. 

RANKIN. Amissionary knows nothing of leks of that soart, 
or of disleks either, Mr Drinkwotter. What can I do for ye? 

DRINKWATER [4eartily] Nathink, gavner. Awve brort 
noos fer yer. 

RANKIN. Well, sit ye doon. 

DRINKWATER. Aw thenk yr honor. [He sits down on the 
seat under the tree and composes himself for conversation]. 
Hever ear o Jadge Ellam? 

RANKIN. Sir Howrrd Hallam? 

DRINKWATER. Thets i1m— enginest jadge in Hingland! 
—awlus gives the ket wen its robbry with voylence, bless 
is awt. Aw sy nathink agin im: awm all fer lor mawseolf, 
aw em. 

RANKIN, Well? 

DRINKWATER. Hever ear of 1s sist-in-lor: Lidy Sisly Wine- 
fleet? 

RANKIN. Do ye mean the celebrated leddy—the traveller? 

DRINKWATER. Yuss: should think aw doo. Walked 
acrost Harfricar with nathink but a little dawg, and wrowt 
abaht it in the Dily Mile [t4e Daily Mail, a popular London 
newspaper), she did. 

RANKIN. Is she Sir Howrrd Hallam’s sister-in-law? 

DRINKWATER. Deeceased wawfe’s sister: yuss: thets wot 
she is. 

RANKIN. Well, what about them? 

DRINKWATER. Wot abaht them! Waw, theyre eah. 
Lannid aht of a steam yacht in Mogador awber not twenty 
minnits agow. Gorn to the British cornsl’s. E’ll send em 


218 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


orn to you: ¢ ynt got naowheres to put em. Sor em awr 
(4ire) a Harab an two Krooboys to kerry their laggige. 
Thort awd cam an teoll yer. 

RANKIN. Thank you. Its verra kind of you, Mr Drink- 
wotter. 

DRINKWATER. Downt mention it, gavner. Lor bless 
yer, wawnt it you as converted me? Wot was aw wen 
aw cam cah but a pore lorst sinner? Downt aw ow y’a 
turn fer thet? Besawds, gavner, this Lidy Sisly Winefleet 
mawt wornt to tike a walk crost Morocker —a rawd inter 
the mahntns or sech lawk. Weoll, as you knaow, gavner, 
thet cawnt be done eah withaht a hescort. 

RANKIN. It’s impoassible: th’ would oall b’ murrdered. 
Morocco is not lek the rest of Africa. 

DRINKWATER. No, gavner: these eah Moors ez their 
religion; an it mikes em dinegerous. Hever convert a 
Moor, gavner? 

RANKIN [with a rueful smile| No. 

DRINKWATER [so/emnly| Nor hever will, gavner. 

RANKIN. I have been at work here for twenty-five years, 
Mr Drinkwotter; and you are my first and only convert. 

DRINKWATER. Downt seem naow good, do it, gavner? 

RANKIN. I dont say that. I hope I have done some good. 
They come to me for medicine when they are ill; and 
they call me the Christian who is nota thief. That is 
something. 

DRINKWATER. Their mawnds kennot rawse to Christien- 
nity lawk hahrs ken, gavner: thets ah it is. Weoll, ez haw 
was syin, if a hescort is wornted, there’s maw friend and 
commawnder Kepn Brarsbahnd of the schooner 'Thenks- 
givin, an is crew, incloodin mawseolf, will see the lidy an 
Jadge Ellam through henny little excursion in reason. 
Yr honor mawt mention it. 

RANKIN. I will certainly not propose anything so danger- 
ous as an excursion. 

DRINKWATER [cirtuously] Naow, gavner, nor would J 
awst you to. [Shaking his head] Naow, naow: it is dine- 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 219 


gerous. But hall the more call for a hescort if they should 
ev it hin their mawnds to gow. | 

RANKIN. I hope they wont. 

DRINKWATER. An sow aw do too, gavner. 

RANKIN [ pondering] 'Tis strange that they should come 
to Mogador, of all places; and to my house! I once met 
Sir Howrrd Hallam, years ago. 

DRINKWATER [amazed] Naow! didger? Think o thet, 
gavner! Waw, sow aw did too. But it were a misunner- 
stendin, thet wors. Lef the court withaht a stine on maw 
kerrickter, aw did. 

RANKIN [with some indignation} I hope you dont think I 
met Sir Howrrd in that way. 

DRINKWATER. Mawt yeppn to the honestest, best meanin 
pusson, aw do assure yer, gavner. 

RANKIN. I would have you to know that I met him 
privately, Mr Drinkwotter. His brother was a dear friend 
of mine. Years ago. He went out to the West Indies. 

DRINKWATER. ‘The Wust Hindies! Jist acrost there, 
tather sawd thet howcean [ pointing seaward|! Dear me! 
We cams hin with vennity, an we deepawts in dawkness. 
Downt we, gavner? 

RANKIN [ pricking up his ears] Eh? Have you been reading 
that little book I gave you? 

DRINKWATER. Aw hev, et odd tawms. Very camfitn, 
gavner. [He rises, apprehensive lest further catechism should 
jind him unprepared|. Awll sy good awtenoon, gavner: 
youre busy hexpectin o Sr Ahrd an Lidy Sisly, ynt yer? 
[-dbout to go). 

RANKIN [stopping fim] No, stop: we're oalways ready for 
travellers here. I have something else to say —a question 
to ask you. 

DRINKWATER [with misgiving, which he masks by exaggera- 
ting his hearty sailor manner| An weollcome, yr honor. 

RANKIN. Who 1s this Captain Brassbound? 

DRINKWATER [gwi/ti/y] Kepn Brarsbahnd! E’s — weoll, 
e’s maw Kepn, gavner. 


220 Three Plays for Puritans Act 1 


RANKIN. Yes. Well? 

DRINKWATER [ feeb/y] Kepn of the schooner Thenks- 
givin, gavner. 

RANKIN [searchingly] Have ye ever haird of a bad 
character in these seas called Black Paquito? 

DRINKWATER [with a sudden radiance of complete enlighten- 
ment| Aoh, nar aw tikes yer wiv me, yr honor. Nah 
sammun es bin a teolln you thet Kepn Brarsbahnd an 
Bleck Pakeetow is haw-dentically the sime pussn. Ynt 
thet sow? 

RANKIN, That is so. [Drinkwater slaps his knee triumph- 
antly. The missicnary proceeds determinedly] And the some- 
one was a verra honest, straightforward man, as far as I 
could judge. 

DRINKWATER [embracing the implication] Course e wors, 
gavner. Ev aw said a word agin him? Ev aw nah? 

RaNKIN. But is Captain Brassbound Black Paquito 
then? 

DRINKWATER. Waw, its the nime is blessed mather give 
im at er knee, bless is little awt! Ther ynt naow awm in 
it. She were a Wust Hinjin— howver there agin, yer see 
[ pointing seaward |—\eastwaws, naow she wornt: she were 
a Brazilian, aw think; an Pakeetow’s Brazilian for a 
bloomin little perrit—-awskin yr pawdn for the word. 
[ Sentimentally| Lawk as a Hinglish lidy mawt call er little 
boy Birdie. 

RANKIN [“ot quite convinced| But why Black Paquito? 

DRINKWATER [artlessly] Waw, the bird in its netral stite 
bein green, an e evin bleck air, y’ knaow — 

RANKIN [cutting him short] I see. And now [ will put 
ye another question. What is Captain Brassbound, or 
Paquito, or whatever he calls himself? 

DRINKWATER [officiously| Brarsbahnd, gavner. Awlus calls 
isseolf Brarsbahnd. 

RANKIN. Well, Brassbound then. What is he? 

DRINKWATER [ fervezt/y| You awsks me wot ¢ Is, gavner? 

RANKIN [firmly] I do. 


Act 1 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 221 


DRINKWATER [with rising enthusiasm] An shll aw teoll 
yer wot e is, yr honor? 

RANKIN [7ot at all impressed| If ye will be so good, Mr 
Drinkwotter. 

DRINKWATER [with overwhelming conviction] Then awll 
teoll you, gavner, wot he is. Ee’s a Paffick Genlmn: thets 
wot ¢€ is. 

RANKIN [ gravely] Mr Dzinkwotter: pairfection is an 
attribute, not of West Coast captains, but of thr Maaker. 
And there are gentlemen and gentlemen in the world, 
espaecially in these latitudes. Which sort of gentleman 
is he? 

DRINKWATER. Hinglish genlmn, gavner. Hinglishspeakin; 
Hinglish fawther ; West Hinjin plawnter; Hinglish true 
blue breed. [Reflectively] Tech o brahn from the mather, 
preps, she bein Brazilian. 

RANKIN. Now on your faith as a Christian, Felix Drink- 
wotter, is Captain Brassbound a slaver or not? 

DRINKWATER [surprised into his natural cockney pertness] 
Naow e ynt. 

RANKIN. Are ye sure? 

DRINKWATER. Waw, a sliver is abaht the wanne thing in 
the wy of a genlmn o fortn thet e ynt. 

RANKIN. Ive haird that expression “gentleman of for- 
tune” before, Mr Drinkwotter. It means pirate. Do ye 
know that? 

DRINKWATER. Bless yr awt, y’ cawnt be a pawrit naradys. 
Waw, the aw seas 1s wuss pleest nor Piccadilly Suckus. If 
aw was to do orn thet there Hetlentic Howcean the things 
aw did as a bwoy in the Worterleoo Rowd, awd ev maw air 
cat afore aw could turn maw ed. Pawrit be blaowed!— 
awskink yr pawdn, gavner. Nah, jest to shaow you ah little 
thet there striteforard man y’ mide mention on knaowed 
wot e was atorkin abaht: 00 would you spowse was the 
marster to wich Kepn Brarsbahnd served apprentice, as 
yr mawt sy? 

RANKIN. I dont know. 


222 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


DRINKWATER. Gawdn, gavner, Gawdn. Gawdn o Kaw- 
toom —stetcher stends in Trifawlgr Square to this dy. 
Trined Bleck Pakeetow in smawshin hap the slive riders, 
e did. Promist Gawdn e wouldnt never smaggle slives nor 
gin, an [with suppressed aggravation] wownt, gavner, not 
if we gows dahn on ahr bloomin bended knees to im to 
do it. 

RANKIN [dri/y] And do ye go down on your bended 
knees to him to do it? 

DRINKWATER [somecvhat abashed| Some of huz is hancon- 
verted men, gavner; an thcy sy: Yousmaggles wanne thing, 
Kepn; waw not hanather? 

RANKIN. Weve come to it at last. I thought so. Captain 
Brassbound is a smuggler. 

DRINKWATER. Weoll, waw not? Waw not, gavner? Ahrs 
is a Free Tride nition. It gows agin us as Hinglishmen to 
see these bloomin furriners settin ap their Castoms Ahses 
and spheres o hinfluence and sich lawk hall owver Ar- 
fricar. Daownt Harfricar belong as much to huz as to 
them? thets wot we sy. Ennywys, there ynt naow awm in 
ahr business. All we daz is hescort, tourist hor com- 
mercial. Cook’s hexcursions to the Hatlas Mahntns: thets 
hall it is. Waw, its spreadin civlawzytion, it is. Ynt it 
nah? 

RANKIN. You think Captain Brassbound’s crew sufii- 
ciently equipped for that, do you? 

DRINKWATER. Hee-quipped! Haw should think sow. 
Lawtnin rawfles, twelve shots in the meggezine! Oo’s to 
storp us? 

RANKIN. The most dangerous chieftain in these parts, 
the Sheikh Sidi el Assif, has a new American machine 
pistol which fires ten bullets without loadin; and his rifle 
has sixteen shots in the magazine. 

DRINKWATER [ivdignantly] Yuss; an the people that sells 
sich things into the ends o’ them eathen bleck niggers calls 
theirseolves Christians! Its a crool shime, sow it is. 

RANKIN. If a man has the heart to pall the trigger, it 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 223 


matters little what color his hand is, Mr Drinkwotter. 
Have ye anything else to say to me this afternoon? 

DRINKWATER [rising] Nathink, gavner, cept to wishyer 
the bust o yolth, and a many cornverts. Awtenoon, gavner. 

RANKIN. Good afternoon to ye, Mr Drinkwotter. 

As Drinkwater turns to go, a Moorish porter comes from 
the house with two Krooboys. 

THE PORTER [at the door, addressing Rankin] Bikouros 
[Moroccan for Epicurus, a general Moorish name for the mis- 
sionaries, who are supposed by the Moors to have chosen their 
calling through a love of luxurious idleness|: I have brought 
to your house a Christian dog and his woman. 

DRINKWATER. Theres eathen menners fer yer! Calls Sr 
Ahrd Ellam an Lidy Winefleet a Christian dorg and is 
woman ! If ee ed you in the dorck et the Cent] Crimnal, 
youd fawnd aht oo was the dorg and oo was is marster, 
pretty quick, you would. 

RANKIN. Have you broat their boxes? 

THE PORTER. By Allah, two camel loads! 

RANKIN. Have you been paid? 

THE PoRTER. Only one miserable dollar, Bikouros. I 
have brought them to your house. They will pay you. 
Give me something for bringing gold to your door. 

DRINKWATER. Yah! You oughter bin bawn a Christian, 
you ought. You knaow too mach. 

RANKIN. You have broat onnly trouble and expense to 
my door, Hassan; and you know it. Have I ever charged 
your wife and children for my medicines? 

HASSAN [ philosophically] It is always permitted by the 
Prophet to ask, Bikouros. [He goes cheerfully into the house 
with the Krooboys}. 

DRINKWATER. Jist thort eed trah it orn, e did. Hooman 
nitre is the sime everywheres. Them eathens is jast lawk 
you an’ me, gavner. 

A lady and gentleman, both English, come into the garden. 
The gentleman, more than elderly, is facing old age on compul- 
sion, not resignedly. He is clean shaven, and has a brainy rect- 


224 Three Plays for Puritans Act t 


angular forehead, a resolute nose with strongly governed nostrils, 
and a tightly fastened down mouth which has evidently shut in 
much temper and anger in its time. He has a habit of deliber- 
ately assumed authority and dignity, but is trying to take life 
more genially and easily in his character of tourist, which is 
further borne out by his white hat and summery racecourse attire. 

The lady is between thirty and forty, tall, very goodlooking, 
sympathetic, intelligent, tender and humorous, dressed with 
cunning simplicity not as a businesslike, tailor made, gaitered 
tourist, but as if she lived at the next cottage and had dropped 
in for tea in blouse and flowered straw hat. A woman of great 
vitality and humanity, who begins a casual acquaintance at the 
point usually attained by English people after thirty years’ ac- 
guaintance when they are capable of reaching it at all, Ste 
pounces genially on Drinkwater, who is smirking at her, hat in 
hand, with an air of hearty welcome, The gentleman, on the 
other hand, comes down the side of the garden next the house, 
instinctively maintaining a distance between himself and the 
others. 

THE LaDy [to Drinkwater] How dye do? Are you the 
missionary ? 

DRINKWATER [modestly] Naow, lidy, aw will not deceive 
you, thow the mistike his but netral. Awm wanne of the 
missionary’s good works, lidy —is first cornvert, a umble 
British seaman — countrymen o yours, lidy, and of is 
lawdship’s. This eah is Mr Renkin, the bust worker in 
the wust cowst vawnyawd. [Introducing the judge| Mr 
Renkin: is lawdship Sr Ahrd Ellam. [He withdraws dis- 
creetly into the house). 

stR HOWARD [fo Rankin] I am sorry to intrude on you, 
Mr Rankin; but in the absence of a hotel there seems to 
be no alternative. 

LADY CICELY [Jeaming on him] Besides, we would so 
much rather stay with you, if you will have us, Mr 
Rankin. 

sik HOwaRD [introducing -er] My sister-in-law, Lady 
Cicely Waynflete, Mr Rankin. 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 225 


RANKIN. I am glad to be of service to your leddyship. 
You will be wishing to have some tea after your journey, 
I’m thinking. 

LADY CICELY. ‘Thoughtful man that you are, Mr Rankin! 
But weve had some already on board the yacht. And Ive 
arranged everything with your servants; so you must go on 
gardening just as if we were not here. 

SIR HOWARD. [am sorry to have to warn you, Mr Rankin, 
that Lady Cicely, from travelling in Africa, has acquired a 
habit of walking into people’s houses and behaving as if 
she were in her own. 

LADY CICELY. But, my dear Howard, I assure you the 
natives like it. 

RANKIN [ ga//antly| So do I. 

LaDy cicELy [delighted| Oh, that is so nice of you, Mr 
Rankin. This is a delicious country! And the people 
seem so good! ‘They have such nice faces! We had such 
a handsome Moor to carry our luggage up! And two 
perfect pets of Krooboys! Did you notice their faces, 
Howard? 

s1R HOwARD. I did; and I can confidently say, after a 
long experience of faces of the worst type looking at me 
from the dock, that I have never seen so entirely villainous 
a trio as that Moor and the two Krooboys, to whom you 
gave five dollars when they would have been perfectly 
satisfied with one. 

RANKIN [throwing up his hands| Five dollars! ‘Tis easy to 
see you are not Scotch, my leddy. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, poor things, they must want it more 
than we do; and you know, Howard, that Mahometans 
never spend money in drink. 

RANKIN. Excuse me a moment, my leddy. I have a 
word in season to say to that same Moor. [He goes into the 
house). 

LADY CICELY [walking about the garden, looking at the view 
and at the flowers| I think this is a perfectly heavenly place. 

Drinkwater returns from the house with a chair. 


Q 


226 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


DRINKWATER [ placing the chair for Sir Howard | Awskink 
yr pawdn for the libbety, Sr Ahrd. 

sIR HOWARD [/ooking at him| I have seen you before 
somewhere. 

DRINKWATER. You ev, Sr Ahrd. But aw do assure yer 
it were hall a mistike. 

sik HowaRD. As usual. [ He sits down]. Wrongfully con- 
victed, of course. 

DRINKWATER [with sly delight) Naow, gavner. [Half 
whispering, with an ineffable grin] Wrorngfully hacquittid ! 

siR HOWARD. Indeed! Thats the first case of the kind 
I have ever met. 

DRINKWATER. Lawd, Sr Ahrd, wot jagginses them jury- 
men was! You an me knaowed it too, didnt we? 

SIR HOWARD. I daresay we did. Iam sorry to say I forget 
the exact nature of the difficulty you were in. Can you 
refresh my memory? 

DRINKWATER. Owny the aw sperrits o youth, y’ lawd- 
ship. Worterleoo Rowd kice. Wot they calls Ooliganism. 
siR HowaRD. Oh! You were a Hooligan, were you? 

LaDY cicELy [puzzled] A Hooligan! 

DRINKWATER [deprecatingly| Nime giv huz pore thortless 
leds baw a gent on the Dily Chrornicle, lidy. [Rawkin re- 
turns. Drinkwater immediately withdraws, stopping the mis- 
sionary for a moment near the threshold to say, touching his 
forelock} Awll eng abaht within ile, gavner, hin kice aw 
should be wornted. [He goes into the house with soft steps]. 

Lady Cicely sits down on the bench under the tamarisk. 
Rankin takes his stool from the flowerbed and sits down on her 
left, Sir Howard being on her right. 

LADY cIcELY. What a pleasant face your sailor friend 
has, Mr Rankin! He has been so frank and truthful with 
us. You know I dont think anybody can pay me a greater 
compliment than to be quite sincere with me at first sight. 
Its the perfection of natural good manners. 

SIR HOWARD. You must not suppose, Mr Rankin, that 
my sister-in-law talks nonsense on purpose. She will 


Act 1 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 227 


continue to believe in your friend until he steals her watch; 
and even then she will find excuses for him. 

RANKIN [drily changing the subject] And how have ye 
been, Sir Howrrd, since our last meeting that morning 
nigh forty year ago down at the docks in London? 

SIR HOWARD [greatly surprised, pulling himself together] 
Our last meeting! Mr Rankin: have I been unfortunate 
enough to forget an old acquaintance? 

RANKIN. Well, perhaps hardly an acquaintance, Sir 
Howrrd. But I was a close friend of your brother Miles ; 
and when he sailed for Brazil I was one of the little party 
that saw him off. You were one of the party also, if I’m 
not mistaken. I tock particular notice of you because you 
were Miles’s brother and I had never seen ye before. But 
ye had no call to take notice of me. 

SIR HOWARD [reflecting] Yes: there was a young friend 
of my brother’s who might well be you. But the name, as 
I recollect it, was Leslie. 

RANKIN. That was me, sir. My name is Leslie Rankin ; 
and your brother and I were always Miles and Leslie to 
one another. 

SIR HOWARD [ pluming himself a little] Ah! that explains 
it. I can trust my memory still, Mr Rankin; though some 
people do complain that I am growing old. 

Rankin. And where may Miles be now, Sir Howard? 

SIR HOWARD [aéruptly| Dont you know that he is dead? 

RANKIN [much shocked | Never haird of it. Dear, dear: I 
shall never see him again; and I can scarcely bring his 
face to mind after all these years. [With moistening eyes, 
which at once touch Lady Cicely’s sympathy| Vm right sorry 
— right sorry. 

SIR HOWARD [decorously subduing his voice| Yes: he did 
not live long: indeed, he never came back to England. It 
must be nearly thirty years ago now that he died in the 
West Indies on his property there. 

RANKIN [surprised] His proaperty! Miles with a proa- 


perty! 


228 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


SIR HOWARD. Yes: he became a planter, and did well 
out there, Mr Rankin. The history of that property is a 
very curious and interesting one —at least it is so to a 
lawyer like myself. 

RANKIN. I should be glad to hear it for Miles’ sake, 
though T am no lawyer, Sir Howrrd. 

LADY CIcELY. I never knew you had a brother, Howard? 

SIR HOWARD [wot pleased by this remark| Perhaps because 
you never asked me. [Turning more blandly to Rankin] I 
will tell you the story, Mr Rankin. When Miles died, he 
left an estate in one of the West Indian islands. It was 
in charge of an agent who was a sharpish fellow, with all 
his wits about him. Now, sir, that man did a thing which 
probably could hardly be done with impunity even here in 
Morocco, under the most barbarous of surviving civilizations. 
He quite simply took the estate for himself and kept it. 

RANKIN. But how about the law? 

SIR HOWARD. ‘The law, sir, in that island, consisted 
practically of the Attorney General and the Solicitor 
General ; and these gentlemen were both retained by the 
agent. Consequently there was no solicitor in the island 
to take up the case against him. 

RANKIN. Is such a thing possible today in the British 
Empire? 

SIR HowARD [ca/mly] Oh, quite. Quite. 

LADY CICELY. But could not a firstrate solicitor have 
been sent out from London? 

sIR HOWARD. No doubt, by paying him enough to com- 
pensate him for giving up his London practice: that is, 
rather more than there was any reasonable likelihood of 
the estate proving worth. 

RANKIN. Then the estate was lost? 

sIR HowarD. Not permanently. It is in my hands at 
present. 

RANKIN. Then how did ye get it back? 

sIR HowarD [with crafty enjoyment of his own cunning] 
By hoisting the rogue with his own petard. I had to leave 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 229 


matters as they were for many years; for I had my own 
position in the world to make. But at last I made it. In 
the course of a holiday trip to the West Indies, I found 
that this dishonest agent had left the island, and placed the 
estate in the hands of an agent of his own, whom he was 
foolish enough to pay very badly. I put the case before 
that agent; and he decided to treat the estate as my pro- 
perty. ‘The robber now found himself in exactly the same 
position he had formerly forced me into. Nobody in the 
island would act against me, least of all the Attorney and 
Solicitor General, who appreciated my influence at the 
Colonial Office. And so I got the estate back. ‘ The 
mills of the gods grind slowly,” Mr Rankin; ‘but they 
grind exceeding small.” 

LADY CICELY. Now I suppose if I’d done such a clever 
thing in England, youd have sent me to prison. 

SIR HOWARD. Probably, unless you had taken care to 
keep outside the law against conspiracy. Whenever you 
wish to do anything against the law, Cicely, always consult 
a good solicitor first. 

LADY CICELY. So I do. But suppose your agent takes it 
into his head to give the estate back to his wicked old 
employer! 

SIR HOWARD. I heartily wish he would. 

RANKIN [openxeyed] You wish he would!! 

SIR HOWARD. Yes. A few years ago the collapse of the 
West Indian sugar industry converted the income of the 
estate into an annual loss of about £1504 year. If } cant 
sell it soon, I shall simply abandon it—unless you, Mr 
Rankin, would like to take it as a present. 

RANKIN [/avg/ing] [thank your lordship: we have estates 
enough of that sort in Scotland. Youre setting with your 
back to the sun, Leddy Ceecily, and losing something worth 
looking at. See there. [He rises and points seaward, where 
the rapid twilight of the latitude has begun). 

LADY CICELY [getting up to look and uttering a cry of ad- 
miration| Oh, how lovely! 


230 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


SIR HOWARD [a/so rising] What are those hills over there 
to the southeast? 

RANKIN. They are the outposts, so to speak, of the Atlas 
Mountains. 

LaDy cicELy. The Atlas Mountains! Where Shelley’s 
witch lived! We’ll make an excursion to them tomorrow, 
Howard. 

RANKIN. Thats impoassible, my leddy. The natives are 
verra dangerous. 

LADY cIcELY. Why? Has any explorer been shooting 
them? 

RANKIN. No. But every man of them believes he will 
go to Heaven if he kills an unbeliever. 

LADY cICcELY. Bless you, dear Mr Rankin, the people 
in England believe that they will go to heaven if they give 
all their property to the poor. But they dont doit. I’m 
not a bit afraid of that. 

RANKIN. But they are not accustomed to see women 
going about unveiled. 

LADY CICELY. I always get on best with people when 
they can see my face. 

SIR HOWARD. Cicely: you are talking great nonsense; 
and you know it. These people have no laws to restrain 
them, which means, in plain English, that they are habitual 
thieves and murderers. 

RANKIN. Nay, nay: not exactly that, Sir Howrrd. 

LADY CICELY [izdignantly| Of course not. You always 
think, Howard, that nothing prevents people killing each 
other but the fear of your hanging them for it. But what 
nonsense thatis! And how wicked! If these people werent 
here for some good purpose, they wouldnt have been made, 
would they, Mr Rankin? 

RANKIN, That is a point, certainly, Leddy Ceecily. 

sIR HowARD. Oh, if you are going to talk theology— 

LADY CICELY. Well, why not? theology is as respectable 
as law, J should think. Besides, I’m only talking common- 
sense. Why do people get killed by savages? Because 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 231 


instead of being polite to them, and saying How dye do? 
like me, people aim pistols at them. Ive been among 
savages—cannibals and all sorts. Everybody said theyd 
kill me. But when I met them, I said Howdyedo? and 
they were quite nice. The kings always wanted to marry 
me. 

SIR HOWARD. That does not seem to me to make you 
any safer here, Cicely. You shall certainly not stir a step 
beyond the protection of the consul, if I can help it, with- 
out a strong escort. 

LADY cIcELy. I dont want an escort. 

stR HowARD. Ido. And I suppose you will expect me 
to accompany you. 

RANKIN. ‘Tis not safe, Leddy Ceecily. Really and truly, 
tis not safe. The tribes are verra fierce; and there are 
cities here that no Christian has ever set foot in. If you 
go without being well protected, the first chief you meet 
will seize you and send you back again to prevent his 
followers murdering you. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, how nice of him, Mr Rankin! 

RANKIN. He would not do it for your sake, Leddy 
Ceecily, but for his own. The Sultan would get into 
trouble with England if you were killed; and the Sultan 
would kill the chief to pacify the English government. 

LADY CICELY. But J always go everywhere. I know the 
people here wont touch me. They have such nice faces 
and such pretty scenery. 

SIR HOWARD [to Razkin, sitting down again resignedly| You 
can imagine how much use there is in talking to a woman 
who admires the faces of the ruffians who infest these ports, 
Mr Rankin. Can anything be done in the way of an 
escort? 

RANKIN. There is a certain Captain Brassbound here 
who trades along the coast, and occasionally escorts parties 
of merchants on journeys into the interior. I understand 
that he served under Gordon in the Soudan. 

SIR HOWARD. That sounds promising. But J should like 


222 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


to know a little more about him before I trust myself in 
his hands. 

RANKIN. I quite agree with you, Sir Howrrd. I’ll send 
Felix Drinkwotter for him. [He claps bis hands. An Arab 
boy appears at the house door]. Muley: is sailor man here? 
[ Muley nods]. Tell sailor man bring captain. [Muley nods 
and goes|. 

sIR HowARD. Who is Drinkwater? 

RANKIN. His agent, or mate: I dont rightly know which. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, if he has a mate named Felix Drink- 
water, it must be quite a respectable crew. It is such a 
nice name. 

RANKIN. You saw him here just now. He is a convert 
of mine. 

LaDy cIcELy [de/ighted] That nice truthful sailor! 

SIR HOWARD [4orrified| What! The Hooligan! 

RANKIN [ puzzled] Hooligan? No, my lord: he is an 
Englishman. 

sIR HowARD. My dear Mr Rankin, this man was tried 
before me on a charge of street ruffianism. 

RANKIN. So he told me. He was badly broat up, I am 
afraid. But he is now a converted man. 

LaDy cicELy. Of course he is. His telling you so frankly 
proves it. You know, really, Howard, all those poor people 
whom you try are more sinned against than sinning. If 
you would only talk to them in a friendly way instead of 
passing cruel sentences on them, you would find them 
quite nice to you. [Jndignantly] I wont have this poor 
man trampled on merely because his mother brought him 
up as a Hooligan. I am sure nobody could be nicer than 
he was when he spoke to us. 

SIR HOWARD. In short, we are to have an escort of 
Hooligans commanded by a filibuster. Very well, very 
well. You will most likely admire all their faces; and I 
have no doubt at all that they will admire yours. 

Drinkwater comes from the house with an Italian dressed 
in a much worn suit of blue serge, a dilapidated Alpine hat, 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 233 


and boots laced with scraps of twine. He remains near the 
door, whilst Drinkwater comes forward between Sir Howard 
and Lady Cicely. 

DRINKWATER. Yr honor’s servant. [ Zo the Italian | Mawt- 
zow: is lawdship Sr Ahrd Ellam [Marzo touches his hat]. 
Er lidyship Lidy Winefleet [Marzo touches his hat]. Haw- 
tellian shipmite, lidy. Hahr chef. 

LADY CICELY [oading affably to Marzo] Howdyedo? | 
love Italy. What part of it were you born in? 

DRINKWATER. Wornt bawn in Hitly at all, lidy. Bawn 
in Ettn Gawdn [Hatton Garden]. Wawce barrer an street 
pianner Hawtellian, lidy: thets wot e is. Kepn Brars- 
bahnd’s respects to yr honors; an e awites yr com-~ 
mawnds. 

RANKIN. Shall we go indoors to see him? 

sIR HowaARD. I think we had better have a look at him 
by daylight. 

RANKIN. Then we must lose no time: the dark is soon 
down in this latitude. [Zo Drinkwater] Will ye ask him 
to step out here to us, Mr Drinkwotter? 

DRINKWATER. Rawt you aw, gavner. [He goes officious/y 
into the house). 

Lady Cicely and Rankin sit down as before to receive the 
Captain. The light is by this time waning rapidly, the dark- 
ness creeping west into the orange crimson. 

LADY CICELY [whispering] Dont you feel rather creepy, 
Mr Rankin? I wonder what he’ll be like. 

RANKIN. I misdoubt me he will not answer, your leddy- 
ship. 

"There is a scuffing noise in the house; and Drinkwater 
shoots out through the doorway across the garden with every 
appearance of having been violently kicked. Marzo immediately 
hurries down the garden on Sir Howard’s right out of the 
neighborhood of the doorway. 

DRINKWATER [trying to put a cheerful air on much mortifica- 
tion and bodily anguish| Narsty step to thet ere door —tripped 
me hap, it did. [Raising his voice and narrowly escaping a 


234 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 
squeak of pain) Kepn Brarsbahnd. [He gets as far from the 


house as possible, on Rankin’s left. Rankin rises to receive his 
guest). 

An olive complexioned man with dark southern eyes and hair 
comes from the house. Age about 36. Handsome features, but 
joyless; dark eyebrows drawn towards one another; mouth set 
grimly; nostrils large and strained: a face set to one tragic 
purpose. A man of few words, fewer gestures, and much sig- 
nificance. On the whole, interesting, and even attractive, but 
not friendly. He stands for a moment, saturnine in the ruddy 
light, to see who is present, looking in a singular and rather 
deadly way at Sir Howard, then with some surprise and un- 
easiness at Lady Cicely. Finaily he comes down into the middle 
of the garden, and confronts Rankin, who has been staring at 
him in consternation from the moment of his entrance, and con- 
tinues to do so in so marked a way that the glow in Brassbound’s 
eyes deepens as Le begins to take offence. 

BRASSBOUND. Well, sir, have you stared your fill at me? 

RANKIN [recovering himself with a start] I ask your pardon 
for my bad manners, Captain Brassbound. Ye are extra- 
ordinair lek an auld college friend of mine, whose face IJ 
said not ten minutes gone that I could no longer bring to 
mind. It was as if he had come from the grave to remind 
me of it. 

BRASSBOUND. Why have you sent for me? 

RANKIN. We have a matter of business with ye, Captain. 

BRASSBOUND. Who are “we”? 

RANKIN. This is Sir Howrrd Hallam, who will be well 
known to ye as one of Her Majesty’s judges. 

BRASSBOUND [turning the singular look again on Sir Howard | 
The friend of the widow! the protector of the fatherless! 

sIR HOwARD [start/ed] I did not know I was so favorably 
spoken of in these parts, Captain Brassbound. We want 
an escort for a trip into the mountains. 

BRASSBOUND [ignoring this announcement| Whois the lady? 

RANKIN. Lady Ceecily Waynflete, his lordship’s sister- 
in-law. 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 235 


LADY CICELY. Howdyedo, Captain Brassbound? [ Ile dows 
gravely]. 

sIR HOWARD [a Jittle impatient of these questions, which 
strike him as somewhat impertinent| Let us come to business, 
if you please. We are thinking of making a short excursion 
to see the country about here. Can you provide us with 
an escort of respectable, trustworthy men? 

BRASSBOUND. No. 

DRINKWATER [in strong remonstrance| Nah, nah, nah! 
Nah look eah, Kepn, y’ knaow — 

BRASSBOUND [between his teeth] Hold your tonguc. 

DRINKWATER [adject/y] Yuss, Kepn. 

RANKIN. I understood it was your business to provide 
escorts, Captain Brassbound. 

BRASSBOUND. You were rightly informed. That is my 
business. 

LADY CICELY. Chen why wont you do it for us? 

BRASSBOUND. You are not content with an escort. You 
want respectable, trustworthy men. You should have 
brought a division of London policemen with you. My 
men are neither respectable nor trustworthy. 

DRINKWATER [unable to contain himself\ Nah, nah, look 
eah, Kepn. If you want to be moddist, be moddist on 
your aown accahnt, nort on mawn. 

BRASSBOUND. You see what my men are like. That 
rascal [zvdicating Marzo] would cut a throat for a dollar if 
he had courage enough. 

MaRzo. I not understand. I no spik Englis. 

BRASSBOUND. This thing [ pocwting to Drinkwater] is the 
greatest liar, thief, drunkard, and rapscallion on the west 
coast. 

DRINKWATER [affecting an ironic indifference| Gow orn, 
gow orn. Sr Ahrd ez erd witnesses to maw kerrickter 
afoah. & knaows ah mech to blieve of em. 

LADY CICELY. Captain Brassbound: I have heard all that 
before about the blacks; and I found them very nice people 
when they were properly treated. 


236 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


DRINKWATER [chuckling: the Italian is also grinning| Nah, 
Kepn, nah! Owp yr prahd o y’seolf nah. 

BRASSBOUND. I quite understand the proper treatment for 
him, madam. If he opens his mouth again without my 
leave, I will break every bone in his skin. 

LADY CICELY [iz fer most sunnily matter-of-fact way| Does 
Captain Brassbound always treat you like this, Mr Drink- 
water? 

Drinkwater hesitates, and looks apprehensively at the 
Captain. 

BRASSBOUND. Answer, you dog, when the lady orders 
you. [Zo Lady Cicely] Do not address him as Mr Drink- 
water, madam: he is accustomed to be called Brandyfaced 
Jack. 

DRINKWATER [izdignantly| Eah, aw sy! nah look eah, 
Kepn: maw nime is Drinkworter. You awsk em et Sin 
Jorn’s in the Worterleoo Rowd. Orn maw grenfawther’s 
tombstown, it is. 

BRASSBOUND. It will be on your own tombstone, pre- 
sently, if you cannot hold your tongue. [Zuruing to the 
others| Let us understand one another, if you please. An 
escort here, or anywhere where there are no regular dis- 
ciplined forces, is what its captain makes it. If I under- 
take this business, J shall be your escort. I may require a 
dozen men, just as I may require a dozen horses. Some of 
the horses will be vicious; so will all the men. If either 
horse or man tries any of his viciousness on me, so much 
the worse for him; but it will make no difference to you. 
} will order my men to behave themselves before the lady ; 
and they shall obey their orders. But the lady will please 
understand that I take my own way with them and suffer 
no interference. 

LADY cIcELy. Captain Brassbound: I dont want an 
escort at all. It will simply get us all into danger; and 
I shall have the trouble of getting it out again. Thats 
what escorts always do. But since Sir Howard prefers an 
escort, I think you had better stay at home and let me take 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 237 


charge of it. I know your men will get on perfectly well 
if theyre properly treated. 

DRINKWATER [with enthusiasm| Feed aht o yr and, lidy, 
we would. 

BRASSBOUND [with sardonic assent) Good. I agree. [To 
Drinkwater] You shall go without me. 

DRINKWATER [terrified] Eah! Wot are you a syin orn? 
We cawnt gowwithaht yer. [Zo Lady Cicely] Naow, lidy: 
it wouldnt be for yr hown good. Yer cawnt hexpect a lot 
o poor honeddikited men lawk huz to ran ahrseolvs into 
dineger withaht naow Kepn to teoll us wot to do. Naow, 
lidy: hoonawted we stend: deevawdid we fall. 

LADY cIcELy. Oh, if you prefer your captain, have him 
by all means. Do you like to be treated as he treats you? 

DRINKWATER [with a smile of vanity] Weoll, lidy: y’ 
cawnt deenaw that e’sa Paffick Genlmn. Bit hawbitrairy, 
preps; but hin a genlmn you looks for sich. It tikes a 
hawbitrairy wanne to knock aht them eathen Shikes, aw 
teoll yer. 

BRASSBOUND, ‘hats enough. Go. 

DRINKWATER. Weoll, aw was hownly a teolln the lidy 
thet —[4 threatening movement from Brassbound cuts him 
short. He flies for his life into the house, followed by the 
Italian). 

BRASSBOUND. Your ladyship sees. ‘hese men serve me 
by their own free choice. If they are dissatisfied, they go. 
If J am dissatisfied, they go. They take care that I am not 
dissatisfied. 

SIR HOWARD [who has listened with approval and growing 
confidence| Captain Brassbound: you are the man I want. 
If your terms are at all reasonable, I will accept your ser- 
vices if we decide to make an excursion. You do not 
object, Cicely, I hope. 

LaDY CICELY. Oh no. After all, those men must really 
like you, Captain Brassbound. I feel sure you have a kind 
heart. You have such nice eyes. 

SIR HOWARD [scandalized| My dear Cicely: you really 


238 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


must restrain your expressions of confidence in people’s 
eyes and faces. [70 Brassbound| Now, about terms, Cap- 
tain? 

BRASSBOUND. Where do you propose to go? 

SIR HowARD. I hardly know. Where can we go, Mr 
Rankin? 

RANKIN. ‘Take my advice, Sir Howrrd. Dont go far. 

BRASSBOUND. I can take you to Meskala, from which you 
can see the Atlas Mountains. From Meskala I can take 
you to an ancient castle in the hills, where you can put up 
as long as you please. The customary charge is half a 
dollar a man per day and his food. J charge double. 

SIR HOWARD. I suppose you answer for your men being 
sturdy fellows, who will stand to their guns if necessary. 

BRassBounD. I can answer for their being more afraid 
of me than of the Moors. 

LADY CICELY. That doesnt matter in the least, Howard. 
The important thing, Captain Brassbound, is: first, that we 
should have as few men as possible, because men give such 
a lot of trouble travelling. And then, they must have good 
lungs and not be always catching cold. Above all, their 
clothes must be of good wearing material. Otherwise I 
shall be nursing and stitching and mending all the way; 
and it will be trouble enough, I assure you, to keep them 
washed and fed without that. 

BRASSBOUND [/aughtily| My men, madam, are not child- 
ren in the nursery. 

LADY CICELY [with unanswerable conviction] Captain 
Brassbound: al] men are children in the nursery. I see 
that you dont notice things. That poor Italian had only 
one proper bootlace: the other was a bit of string. And I 
am sure from Mr Drinkwater’s complexion that he ought 
to have some medicine. 

BRASSBOUND [outwardly determined not to be trifled with: 
inwardly puzzled and rather daunted| Madam: 1f you want 
an escort, I can provide you with an escort. If you want 
a Sunday School treat, I can not provide it. 


Act I Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 239 


LADY CICELY [with sweet melancholy] Ah, dont you wish 
you could, Captain? Oh, if 1 could only shew you my 
children from Waynflete Sunday School! The darlings 
would love this place, with all the camels and black men. 
I’m sure you would enjoy having them here, Captain 
Brassbound ; and it would be such an education for your 
men! [Brassbound stares at her with drying lips]. 

SIR HOWARD. Cicely: when you have quite done talking 
nonsense to Captain Brassbound, we can proceed to make 
some definite arrangement with him. 

LADY CICELY. But it’s arranged already. We'll start at 
eight o’clock tomorrow morning, if you please, Captain. 
Never mind about the Italian: I have a big box of clothes 
with me for my brother in Rome; and there are some 
bootlaces in it. Now go home to bed and dont fuss your- 
self. All you have to do is to bring your men round ; 
and I'll see to the rest. Men are always so nervous 
about moving. Goodnight. [She offers fim her hand. Sur- 
prised, he pulls off bis cap for the first time. Some scruple 
prevents tim from taking Fer hand at once. He hesitates; 
then turns to Sir Howard and addresses him with warning 
earnestness). 

BRASSBOUND. Sir Howard Hallam: I advise you not to 
attempt this expedition. 

SIR HOWARD. Indeed! Why? 

BRASSBOUND. You are safe here. I warn you, in those 
hills there 1s a justice that is not the justice of your courts 
in England. If you have wronged a man, you may meet 
that man there. If you have wronged a woman, you may 
meet her son there. The justice of those hills is the justice 
of vengeance. 

SIR HOWARD [ faintly amused] You are superstitious, Cap- 
tain. Most sailors are, I notice. However, I have complete 
confidence in your escort. 

BRASSBOUND [almost threateningly| Take care. The 
avenger may be one of the escort. 

SiR HOWARD. I have already met the only member of 


240 Three Plays for Puritans Act I 


your escort who might have borne a grudge against me, 
Captain; and he was acquitted. 

BRASSBOUND. You are fated to come, then? 

SIR HOWARD [smfing] It seems so. 

BRASSBOUND. On your head be it! [Zo Lady Cicely, 
accepting her hand at last| Goodnight. 

fle gies. It is by this time starry night. 


AEE 


Midday. A room in a Moorish castle. A divan seat runs 
round the dilapidated adobe walls, which are partly painted, 
partly faced with white tiles patterned in green and yellow. The 
ceiling is made up of little squares, painted in bright colors, with 
gilded edges, and ornamented with gilt knobs. On the cement 
floor are mattings, sheepskins, and leathern cushions with geo- 
metrical patterns on them. There is a tiny Moorish table in the 
middle; and at it a huge saddle, with saddle cloths of various 
colors, skewing that the room is used by foreigners accustomed 
to chairs. Anyone sitting at the table in this seat would have 
the chief en:rance, a large horseshoe arch, on his left, and 
another saddle seat between him and the arch; whilst, if suscept- 
ible to draughts, fe would probably catch cold from a little 
Moorish door in the wall behind him to his right. 

Two or three of Brassbound’s men, overcome by the midday 
Feat, sprawl supine on the floor, with their reefer coats under 
their heads, their knees uplifted, and their calves laid comfort- 
ably on the divan. Those who wear shirts kave them open at 
the throat for greater coolness. Some have jerseys. All wear 
boots and belts, and have guns ready to their hands. One of 
them, lying with his head against the second saddle seat, wears 
what was once a fashionable white English yachting suit. He 
is evidently a pleasantly worthless young English gentleman gone 
to the bad, but retaining sufficient self-respect to shave carefully 
and brush his hair, which is wearing thin, and does not seem to 
have been luxuriant even in its best days. 

R 


242 Three Plays for Puritans = Act I 


The silence is broken only by the snores of the young gentle- 
man, whose mouth has fallen open, until a few distant shots half 
waken him. He shuts his mouth convulsively, and opens his 
eyes sleepily. A door is violently kicked outside ; and the voice 
of Drinkwater is heard raising urgent alarm. 


DRINKWATER. Wot ow! Wike ap there, will yr. Wike 
ap. [He rushes in through the horseshoe arch, hot and excited, 
and runs round, kicking the sleepers). Nah then. Git ap. 
Git ap, will yr, Kiddy Redbrook. [He gives the young 
gentleman a rude shove]. 

REDBROOK [sitting up] Stow that, will you. Whats amiss? 

DRINKWATER [disgusted | Wots amiss! Didnt eah naow 
fawrin, I spowse. 

REDBROOK. No. 

DRINKWATER [seering| Naow. ‘Thort it sifer nort, 
didnt yr? 

REDBROOK [with crisp intelligence] What! Youre running 
away, are you? [He springs up, crying | Look alive, Johnnies : 
there’s danger. Brandyfaced Jack’s on the run. [They 
spring up hastily, grasping their guns]. 

DRINKWATER. Dineger! Yuss: should think there wors 
dineger. It’s howver, thow, as it mowstly his baw the 
tawm youre awike. [TZZey relapse into lassitude|? Waw 
wasnt you on the look-aht to give us a end? Bin hattecked 
baw the Benny Seeras [Bei Siras], we ev, an ed to rawd 
for it pretty strite, too, aw teoll yr. Mawtzow is it: the 
bullet glawnst all rahnd is bloomin brisket. Brarsbahnd 
e dropt the Shike’s oss at six unnern fifty yawds. [ Busthng 
them about| Nah then: git the plice ready for the British 
herristorcracy, Lawd Ellam an Lidy Wineflete? 

REDBROOK. Lady faint, eh? 

DRINKWATER. Fynt! Not lawkly. Wornted to gow an 
talk to the Benny Seeras: blaow me if she didnt! Harskt 
huz wot we was frahtnd of. Tyin ap Mawtzow’s wound, 
she is, like a bloomin orspittle nass. [Sir Howard, with a 
copious pagri on his white hat, enters through the horseshoe 


Act lI Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 243 


arch, followed by a couple of men supporting the wounded 
Marzo, who, weeping and terrorstricken by the prospect of 
death and of subsequent torments for which te is conscious 
of having eminently qualified himself, has his coat off and a 
bandage round his chest. One of his supporters is a black- 
bearded, thickset, slow, middle-aged man with an air of damaged 
respectability, named —as it afterwards appears — Fotnson. 
Lady Cicely walks beside Marzo. Redbrook, a little shamefaced, 
crosses the room to the opposite wall as far away as possible from 
the visitors. Drinkwater turns and receives them with jocular 
ceremony]. Weolcome to Brarsbahnd Cawstl, Sr Ahrd an 
lidy. This eah is the corfee and commercial room. 

Sir Howard goes to the table and sits on the saddle, rather 
exhausted. Lady Cicely comes to Drinkwater. 

LaDy cicELY. Where is Marzo’s bed? 

DRINKWATER. Is bed, lidy? Weoll: e ynt petickler, lidy. 
E ez is chawce of henny flegstown agin thet wall. 

Lhey deposit Marzo on the flags against the wall close to the 
little door. He groans. Johnson phlegmatically leaves him and 
joins Redbrook. 

LADY CICELY. But you cant leave him there in that state. 

DRINKWATER. Ow: e’s hall rawt. [Strolling up callously 
to Marzo] Youre hall rawt, ynt yer, Mawtzow? [Marzo 
whimpers|. Corse y’aw. 

LADY CICELY [to Sir Howard] Did you ever see such a 
helpless lot of poor creatures? [She makes for the little 
door |. 

a eae Eah! [He runs to the door and places him- 
self before it}, Where mawt yr lidyship be gowin? 

LADY CICELY. I’m going through every room in this 
castle to find a proper place to put that man. And now 
I'll tell you where youre going. Youre going to get some 
water for Marzo, who is very thirsty. And then, when Ive 
chosen a room for him, youre going to make a bed for him 
there. 

DRINKWATER [sarcastically] Ow! Henny ather little 
suvvice? Mike yrseolf at owm, y’ knaow, lidy. 


244 Three Plays for Puritans — Act I 


LADY CICELY [comsiderately| Dont go if youd rather not, 
Mr Drinkwater. Perhaps youre too tired. [Turning to the 
archway| Vil ask Captain Brassbound: he wont mind. 

DRINKWATER |terrifed, running after ter and getting be- 
teveen her and the arch| Naow, naow! Naow, lidy: downt 
you gow disturbin the kepn. Awll see to it. 

LADY CICELY [grazie/y] Iwas sure you would, Mr Drink- 
water. You have such a kind face. [SZe turns back and goes 
cut through the small door). 

DRINKWATER [J/ooking after fer) Garn! 

sIR HOWARD [fo Drinkwater] Will you ask one of your 
friends to show me to my room whilst you are getting the 
water? 

DRINKWATER [Zmsolently] Yr room! Ow: this ynt good 
enaf fr yr, yntit? [Ferociously| Ooa you orderin abaht, ih? 

SIR HOWARD [rising quietly, and taking refuge between Red- 
brook and Fohnson, whom he addresses| Can you find me a 
more private room than this? 

jounson [shaking his ead} Ive no orders. You must wait 
til the capn comes, sir. 

DRINKWATER | following Sir Howard| Yuss; an whawl 
youre witin, yll tike your horders from me: see? 

joHNson [with slow severity, to Drinkwater) Look here: 
do you see three genlmen talkin to one another here, civil 
and private, eh? 

DRINKWATER [chapfallen] No offence, Miste Jornsn — 

JoHNSON [ominously] Ay; but there is offence. Wheres 
your manners, you guttersnipe? [Zurning to Sir Howard | 
Thats the curse o this kind o life, sir: you got to associate 
with all sorts. My father, sir, was Capn Johnson o Hull 
-— owned his own schooner, sir. We're mostly gentlemen 
here, sir, as youll find, except the poor ignorant foreigner 
and that there scum of the submerged tenth. [Contemp- 
tuously talking at Drinkwater] He aint nobody’s son: he’s 
only a offspring o coster folk or such. 

DRINKWATER [4ursting into tears] Clawss feelin! thets 
wot it is: clawss feelin! Wot are yer, arter all, bat a 


ActIf Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 245 


bloomin gang o wust cowst cazhls [casual ward paupers|? 
[ Fobnson is scandalized; and there is a general thrill of indig- 
nation|. Better ev naow fembly, an rawse aht of it, lawk 
me, than ev a specble one and disgrice it, lawk you. 

jounson. Brandyfaced Jack: I name you for conduct 
and language unbecoming to a gentleman. Those who 
agree will signify the same in the usual manner, 

ALL [vehemently] Aye. 

DRINKWATER [i/dly] Naow. 

jounson. Felix Drinkwater: are you goin out, or are you 
goin to wait til youre chucked out? You can cry in the pass- 
age. Ifyou give any trouble, youll have something to cry for. 

They make a threatening movement towards Drinkwater. 

DRINKWATER [whimpering] You lee me alown: awm 
gowin. ‘There’s n’maw true demmecrettick feelin eah 
than there is in the owl bloomin M division of Noontn 
Corzwy coppers [ Newington Causeway policemen). 

As he slinks away in tears towards the arch, Brassbound 
enters. Drinkwater promptly shelters himself on the captain's 
left hand, the others retreating to the opposite side as Brass- 
bound advances to the middle of the room. Sir Howard retires 
behind them and seats himself on the divan, much fatigued. 

BRASSBOUND [to Drinkwater] What are you snivelling at? 

DRINKWATER. You awsk the wust cowst herristorcracy. 
They fawnds maw cornduck hanbecammin to a genlmn. 

Brassbound is about to ask ‘foknson for an explanation, when 
Lady Cicely returns througa the little door, and comes between 
Brassbcund and Drinkwater. 

LADY CICELY [to Drinkwater] Have you fetched the 
water? 

DRINKWATER. Yuss: nah you begin orn me. [He weeps 
afresh|. 

LADY CICELY [surprised] Oh! This wont do, Mr Drink- 
water. If you cry, I cant let you nurse your friend. 

DRINKWATER [ frantic] Thetll brike maw awt, wownt it 
nah? [With a lamentable sob, he throws himself down on tlhe 
divan, raging like an angry child |. 


246 Three Plays for Puritans = Act I 


LaDy CICELY [after contemplating him in astonishment for a 
moment| Captain Brassbound: are there any charwomen in 
the Atlas Mountains? 

BRASSBOUND. There are people here who will work if 
you pay them, as there are elsewhere. 

LADY CICELY. ‘T‘his castle is very romantic, Captain ; but 
it hasnt had a spring cleaning since the Prophet lived in it. 
Theres only one room I can put that wounded man into. 
Its the only one that has a bed in it: the second room on 
the right out of that passage. 

BRASSBOUND [/aughtily| ‘That is my room, madam. 

LaDy cIcELy [re/ieved| Oh, thats all right. It would 
have been so awkward if I had had to ask one of your men 
to turn out. You wont mind, I] know. [ 4// the men stare 
at her. Even Drinkwater forgets his sorrows in his stupefac- 
tion. 

BRASSBOUND. Pray, madam, have you made any arrange- 
ments for my accommodation? 

LADY CICELY [reassuringly| Yes: you can have my room 
instead, wherever it may be: I’m sure you chose mea nice 
one. I must be near my patient ; and I dont mind rough- 
ing it. Now I must have Marzo moved very carefully. 
Where is that truly gentlemanly Mr Johnson ? — oh, there 
you are, Mr Johnson. [She runs to Fohnson, past Brass- 
bound, who has to step back hastily out of her way with every 
expression froxen out of his face except one of extreme and in- 
dignant dumbfoundedness}. Will you ask your strong friend 
to help you with Marzo: strong people are always so 
gentle. 

Jounson. Let me introdooce Mr Redbrook. Your lady- 
ship may know his father, the very Rev. Dean Redbrook. 
[He goes to Marzo]. 

REDBROOK. Happy to oblige you, Lady Cicely. 

Lavy cicELy [shaking hands| Howdyedo? Of course I 
knew your father — Dunham, wasnt it? Were you ever 
called — 

REDBROOK. ‘Ihe kid? Yes. 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 247 


LADY CICELY. But why — 

REDBROOK [avticipating the rest of the question] Cards and 
drink, Lady Sis. [He follows Fohnson to the patient. Lady 
Cicely goes too]. Now, Count Marzo. [Marzo groans as 
Fobnson and Redbrook raise him). 

LaDY ciceELY. Now theyre not hurting you, Marzo. 
They couldnt be more gentle. 

MARzo. Drink. 

LADY CICELY. I’]l get you some water myself. Your 
friend Mr Drinkwater was too overcome—take care of the 
corner — thats it—the second door on the right. [Se goes 
out with Marzo and his bearers through the little door]. 

BRASSBOUND [s¢i// staring] Well, Iam damned ! 

DRINKWATER [getting up| Weoll, blimey ! 

BRASSBOUND [turning irritably on him| What did you say? 

DRINKWATER. Weoll, wot did yer sy yrseolf, kepn? Fust 
tawm aw yever see y’ afride of ennybody. [ T4e others laugh]. 

BRASSBOUND. Afraid ! 

DRINKWATER [maliciously] She’s took y’bed from hander 
yr for a bloomin penny hawcemen. If y’ ynt afride, lets 
eah yer speak ap to er wen she cams bawck agin. 

BRASSBOUND [to Sir Howard| I wish you to understand, 
Sir Howard, that in this castle, it is J who give orders, and 
no one else. Will you be good enough to let Lady Cicely 
Waynflete know that. 

SIR HOWARD [sitting up on the divan and pulling himself 
together] You will have ample opportunity for speaking to 
Lady Cicely yourself when she returns. [ Drinkwater 
chuckles; and the rest grin). 

BRASSBOUND. My manners are rough, Sir Howard. I 
have no wish to frighten the lady. 

SIR HOWARD. Captain Brassbound : if you can frighten 
Lady Cicely, you will confer a great obligation on her 
family. If she had any sense of danger, perhaps she would 
keep out of it. 

BRassBouND. Well, sir, if she were ten Lady Cicelys, 
she must consult me while she is here. 


248 Three Plays for Puritans — Act I 


DRINKWATER. Thets rawt, kepn. Lets eah you steblish 
yr hawthority. [Brassbound turns impatiently on him: be 
retreats remonstrating| Nah, nah, nah! 

sR HOWARD. If you feel at all nervous, Captain Brass- 
bound, I will mention the matter with pleasure. 

BRASSBOUND. Nervous, sir! no. Nervousness is not in 
my line. You will find me perfectly capable of saying 
what I want to say—with considerable emphasis, if 
necessary. [Sir Howard assents with a polite but incredulous 
nod |. 

DRINKWATER. Eah, eah! 

Lady Cicely returns with Foknson and Redbrook. She 
carries a jar. 

LADY CICELY [stopping between the door and the arch] Now 
for the water. Where is it? 

REDBROOK. ‘There’s a well in the courtyard. I'll come 
and work the bucket. 

LADY CICELY. So good of you, Mr Kidbrook. [S/e makes 
Sor the horseshoe arch, followed by Redbrook). 

DRINKWATER. Nah, Kepn Brarsbahnd : you got sathink 
to sy to the lidy, ynt yr? 

LADY CICELY [stopping] I'll come back to hear it pre- 
sently, Captain. And oh, while I remember it, [coming 
forward between Brassbound and Drinkwater] do please tell 
me, Captain, if I interfere with your arrangements in any 
way. If I disturb you the least bit in the world, stop me 
at once. You have all the responsibility ; and your com- 
fort and your authority must be the first thing. Youll tell 
me, wont your 

BRASsBOUND [awkewardly, quite beaten] Pray do as you 
please, madam. 

LaDy cicELy. Thank you. Thats so like you, Captain. 
Thank you. Now, Mr Redbrook! Show me the way to 
the well. [S4e follows Redbrook out through the arch). 

pRinkwaTER. Yah! Yah! Shime! Beat bawa woman! 

jouHnson [coming forward on Brassbound’s right| What's 
wrong now f 


ActIf Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 249 


DRINKWATER [wuith an air of disappointment and disillusion | 
Downt awsk me, Miste Jornsn. ‘The kepn’s naow clawss 
arter all. 

BRassBouND [@ “ttle shamefacedly| What has she been 
fixing up in there, Johnson? 

jounson. Well: Marzo’s in your bed. Lady wants to 
make a kitchen of the Sheikh’s audience chamber, and to 
put me and the Kid handy in his bedroom in case Marzo 
gets erysipelas and breaks out violent. From what I can 
make out, she means to make herself matron of this insti- 
tution. I spose its all right, isnt it? 

DRINKWATER. Yuss, an horder huz abaht as if we was 
keb tahts! An the kepn afride to talk bawck at er! 

Lady Cicely returns with Redbrook. Ste carries the jar 
Sull of water. 

LADY CICELY [putting down the jar, and coming between 
Brassbound and Drinkwater as before} And now, Captain, 
before I go to poor Marzo, what have you to say to me? 

BrasspounD. I! Nothing. 

DRINKWATER. Downt fank it, gavner. Be a men! 

LADY CICELY [/ooking at Drinkwater, puzzled | Mr Drink- 
water said you had. 

BRASSBOUND [recovering himself | It was only this. That 
fellow there [ poimting to Drinkwater] is subject to fits of 
insolence. If he is impertinent to your ladyship, or dis- 
obedient, you have my authority to order him as many 
kicks as you think good for him; and I[ will see that he 
gets them. 

DRINKWATER [“fting up his voice in protest] Nah, nah — 

LADY cicELY. Oh, 1 couldnt think of such a thing, 
Captain Brassbound. I am sure it would hurt Mr Drink- 
water. 

DRINKWATER [/achrymosely] Lidy’s hinkyp’ble o sich 
bawbrous usage. 

LADY CICELY. But there’s one thing I should like, if 
Mr Dnnkwater wont mind my mentioning it. It’s so 
important if he’s to attend on Marzo. 


250 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


BRassBpouND. What is that? 

LADY cicELy. Well— you wont mind, Mr Drinkwater, 
will you? 

DRINKWATER [suspicious/y| Wot is it? 

LADY cIcELY. ‘There would be so much less danger of 
erysipelas if you would be so good as to take a bath. 

DRINKWATER [aghast] A bawth! 

BRASSBOUND [in tones of command| Stand by, all hands. 
[Zhey stand by], ‘Take that man and wash him. [With a 
roar of laughter they seize him}. 

DRINKWATER [27 an agony of protest] Naow, naow. Look 
eah — 

BRASSBOUND [ruthlessly] In cold water. 

DRINKWATER [shrieking] Na-a-a-a-ow. Aw cawnt, aw 
teol yer. Naow. Aw sy, look eah. Naow, naow, naow, 
naow, naow, NAOW !!! 

He is dragged away through the arch in a whirlwind of 
laughter, protests and tears. 

LADY CICELY. I’m afraid he isnt used to it, poor fellow; 
but really it will do him good, Captain Brassbound. 
Now I must be off to my patient. [S/e takes up her jar 
and goes out by the little door, leaving Brassbound and Sir 
Howard alone togetter]. 

sIR HowaRD [rising] And now, Captain Brass — 

BRASSBOUND [cutting him short with a fierce contempt that 
astonishes him| I will attend to you presently. [Ca//ing] 
Johnson. Send me Johnson there. And Osman. [He pulls 
off his coat and throws it on the table, standing at his ease in 
his blue jersey}. 

SIR HOWARD [after a momentary flush of anger, with a con- 
trolled force that compels Brassbound’s attention in spite of 
himself | You seem to be in a Strong position with refer- 
ence to these men of yours. 

BRASSBOUND. I am in a strong position with reference to 
everyone in this castle. 

SIR HOWARD | politely but threateningly| I have just been 
noticing that you think so. I do not agree with you. Her 





Act 1 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 251 


Majesty’s Government, Captain Brassbound, has a strong 
arm and along arm. If anything disagreeable happens to 
me or to my sister-in-law, that arm will be stretched out. 
If that happens you will not be in a strong position. Ex- 
cuse my reminding you of it. 

BRASSBOUND [ grim/y] Much good may it do you! [ Fohn- 
son comes in through the arch], Where is Osman, the Sheikh’s 
messenger? I want him too. 

jounson. Coming, Captain. He had a prayer to finish. 

Osman, a tall, skinny, whiteclad, elderly Moor, appears in 
the archway. 

BRASSBOUND. Osman Ali [Osman comes forward between 
Brassbound and Fohnson|: you have seen this unbeliever 
[éndicating Sir Howard] come in with us? 

OSMAN. Yea, and the shameless one with the naked face, 
who flattered my countenance and offered me her hand. 

jonnson. Yes; and you took it too, Johnny, didnt you? 

BRASSBOUND. ‘lake horse, then; and ride fast to your 
master the Sheikh Sidi el Assif — 

osMAN [ proud/y| Kinsman to the Prophet. 

BRassBouND. ‘J'ell him what you have seen here. That 
is all. Johnson: give him a dollar; and note the hour of 
his going, that his master may know how fast he rides. 

osMAN. The believer’s word shall prevail with Allah 
and his servant Sidi el Assif. 

BRASSBOUND. Off with you. 

osman. Make good thy master’s word ere I go out from 
his presence, O Johnson el Hull. 

jounson. He wants the dollar. 

Brassbound gives Osman a coin. 

osmaN [owing] Allah will make hell easy for the friend 
of Sidi el Assif and his servant. [He goes out through the 
arch). 

BRASSBOUND [to Fosnson] Keep the men out of this until 
the Sheikh comes. I have business to talk over, When he 
does come, we must keep together all: Sidi el Assif’s 
natural instinct will be to cut every Christian throat here. 


252 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


jounson. We look to you, Captain, to square him, since 
you invited him over. 

BRASSBOUND. You can depend on me; and you know it, 
] think. 

jounson [ p//egmatically| Yes: we know it. [He is going 
out when Sir Howard speaks). 

sIR HOWARD. You know also, Mr Johnson, I hope, that 
you can depend on me. 

JOHNSON [turning] On you, sir? 

sIR HOWARD. Yes: on me. If my throat is cut, the 
Sultan of Morocco may send Sidi’s head with a hundred 
thousand dollars blood-money to the Colonial Office; but 
it will not be enough to save his kingdom — any more than 
it would save your life, if your Captain here did the same 
thing. 

JoHNSON [struck] Is that so, Captain? 

BRASSBOUND. I know the gentleman’s value — better 
perhaps than he knows it himself. I shall not lose sight 
Oreitt 

Fobnson nods gravely, and is going out when Lady Cicely 
returns softly by the little door and calls to him in a whisper. 
She has taken off her travelling things and put on an apron. 
At her chatelaine is a case of sewing materials. 

LaDy ciceLy. Mir Johnson. [He turmzs]. Ive got Marzo 
to sleep. Would you mind asking the gentlemen not to 
make a noise under his window in the courtyard. 

jounson. Right, maam. [He goes out]. 

Lady Cicely sits down at the tiny table, and begins stitching 
at a sling bandage for Marzo’s arm. Brassbound walks up 
and down on ter right, muttering to himself so ominously that 
Sir Howard quietly gets out of his way by crossing to the other 
side and sitting down on the second saddle seat. 

sIR HowarD. Are you yet able to attend to me for a 
moment, Captain Brassbound? 

BRASSBOUND [sti// walking about) What do you want? 

sik HowARD. Well, I am afraid I want a little privacy, 
and, if you will allow me to say so, a little civility. J am 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 2 53 


greatly obliged to you for bringing us safely off today 
when we were attacked. So far, you have carried out your 
contract. But since we have been your guests here, your 
tone and that of the worst of your men has changed —in- 
tentionally changed, I think. 

BRASSBOUND [stopping abruptly and flinging the announce- 
ment at him| You are not my guest: you are my prisoner. 

sIR HowaRD. Prisoner ! 

Lady Cicely, after a single glance up, continues stitching, 
apparently quite unconcerned. 

BRASSBOUND. I warned you. You should have taken my 
warning. 

SIR HOWARD [immediately taking the tone of cold disgust for 
moral delinquency| Am I to understand, then, that you are 
a brigand? Is this a matter of ransom? 

BRASSBOUND [with unaccountable intensity) All the wealth 
of England shall not ransom you. 

sIR HOWARD. Then what do you expect to gain by this? 

BRASSBOUND. Justice on a thief and a murderer. 

Lady Cicely lays down her work and looks up anxiously. 

SIR HOWARD [deeply outraged, rising with venerable dignity | 
Sir: do you apply those terms to me? 

BRassBouND. I do. [He turns to Lady Cicely, and adds, 
pointing contemptuously to Sir Howard] Look at him. You 
would not take this virtuously indignant gentleman for the 
uncle of a brigand, would you? 

Sir Howard starts. The shock is too much for him: he sits 
down again, looking very old; and his hands tremble; but his 
eyes and mouth are intrepid, resolute, and angry. 

LapY ciceLy. Uncle! What do you mean? 

BRASSBOUND. Has he never told you about my mother? 
this fellow who puts on ermine and scarlet and calls him- 
self Justice. 

SIR HOWARD [a/most voiceless! You are the son of that 
woman ! 

BRASSBOUND [ frerce/4y] “That woman!” [He makes a 
movement as if to rush at Sir Howard }. 


254 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


LADY CICELY [rising quickly and putting her hand on his 
armt| Take care. You mustnt strike an old man. 

BRASSBOUND [raging] He did not spare my mother — 
‘‘that woman,” he calls her — because of her sex. I will 
not spare him because of his age. [Lowering his tone to one 
of sullen vindictiveness! But I am not going to strike him. 
[Lady Cicely releases him, and sits down, much perplexed. 
Brasshound continues, with an evil glance at Sir Howard I 
shall do no more than justice. 

SIR HOWARD [recovering his voice and vigor] Justice! I 
think you mean vengeance, disguised as justice by your 
passions. 

BRASSBOUND. ‘I‘o many and many a poor wretch in the 
dock you have brought vengeance in that disguise — the 
vengeance of society, disguised as justice by its passions. 
Now the justice you have outraged meets you disguised as 
vengeance. How do you like it? 

SIR HOWARD. I shall meet it, I trust, as becomes an 
innocent man and an upright judge. What do you charge 
against me? 

BRASSBOUND. I charge you with the death of my mother 
and the theft of my inheritance. 

sIR HOWARD. As to your inheritance, sir, it was yours 
whenever you came forward to claim it. Three minutes 
ago I did not know of your existence. I affirm that most 
solemnly. I never knew—never dreamt—that my brother 
Miles left a son. As to your mother, her case was a hard 
one — perhaps the hardest that has come within even my 
experience. I mentioned it, as such, to Mr Rankin, the 
missionary, the evening we met you. As to her death, you 
know— you must know—that she died in her native 
country, years after our last meeting. Perhaps you were 
too young to know that she could hardly have expected to 
live long. 

BRASSBOUND. You mean that she drank. 

stk HowaRD. J did not say so. I do not think she was 
always accountable for what she did. 


Act II Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 255 


BRASSBOUND. Yes: she was mad too; and whether drink 
drove her to madness or madness drove her to drink matters 
little. The question is, who drove her to both? 

SIR HOWARD. I presume the dishonest agent who seized 
her estate did. I repeat, it was a hard case —a frightful 
injustice. But it could not be remedied. 

BRASSBOUND. You told herso. When she would not take 
that false answer you drove her from your doors. When 
she exposed you in the street and threatened to take with 
her own hands the redress the law denied her, you had her 
imprisoned, and forced her to write you an apology and 
leave the country to regain her liberty and save herself 
from a lunatic asylum. And when she was gone, and dead, 
and forgotten, you found for yourself the remedy you could 
not find for her. You recovered the estate easily enough 
then, robber and rascal that you are. Did he tell the mis- 
sionary that, Lady Cicely, eh? 

LADY CICELY [sympathetically] Poor woman! [To Sir 
Howard | Couldnt you have helped her, Howard? 

SIR HOWARD. No. ‘This man may be ignorant enough to 
suppose that when I was a struggling barrister I could do 
everything I did when I was Attorney General. You know 
better. There is some excuse for his mother. She was an 
uneducated Brazilian, knowing nothing of English society, 
and driven mad by injustice. 

BRASSBOUND. Your defence — 

SIR HOWARD [uterrupting him determinedly| I do not de- 
fend myself. I call on you to obey the law. 

BRASSBOUND. I intend todo so. The law of the Atlas 
Mountains is administered by the Sheikh Sidi el Assif. He 
will be here within an hour. He is a judge, like yourself. 
You can talk law to him. He will give you both the law 
and the prophets. 

SIR HOWARD. Does he know what the power of England is? 

BRASSBOUND. He knows that the Mahdi killed my master 
Gordon, and that the Mahdi died in his bed and went to 


paradise. 


256 Three Plays for Puritans — Act If 


sik HOWARD. Then he knows also that England’s venge- 
ance was on the Mahdi’s track. 

BRASSBOUND. Ay, on the track of the railway from the 
Cape to Cairo? Who are you, that a nation should go to 
war for you? If you are missing, what will your news- 
papers say? A foolhardy tourist! What will your learned 
friends at the bar say? That it was time for you to make 
room for younger and better men. You a national hero! 
You had better find a goldfield in the Atlas Mountains. 
Then all the governments of Europe will rush to your 
rescue. “Until then, ‘take care of yourself; for you ‘are 
going to see at last the hypocrisy in the sanctimonious 
speech of the judge who is sentencing you, instead of the 
despair in the white face of the wretch you are recom- 
mending to the mercy of your god. 

SIR HOWARD [deeply and personally offended by this slight to 
his profession, and for the first time throwing away bis assumed 
dignity and rising to approach Brassbound with his fists 
clenched; so that Lady Cicely lifts one eye from ter work to 
assure herself that the table is between them] I have no more 
to say to you, sir. I am not afraid of you, nor of any bandit 
with whcm you may be in league. As to your property, it 
is ready for you as soon as you come to your senses and 
claim it as your father’s heir. Commit a crime, and you 
will become an outlaw, and not only lose the property, 
but shut the doors of civilization against yourself for ever. 

BRASSBOUND. I will not sell my mother’s revenge for ten 
properties. 

LaDY CICELY [ p/acidly] Besides, really, Howard, as the 
property now costs £150 a year to keep up instead of 
bringing in anything, I am afraid it would not be of much 
use tohim. [Brassbound stands amazed at this revelation]. 

sIR HOWARD [faken aback] I must say, Cicely, I think 
you might have chosen a more suitable moment to mention 
that fact. 

BrasspounD [with disgust] Agh! Trickster! Lawyer! 
Even the price you offer for your life is to be paid in false 


Act If Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 257 


coin. [Ca/ling| Hallothere! Johnson! Redbrook! Some 
of you there! [Zo Sir Howard] You ask fora little privacy : 
you shall have it. I will not endure the company of such 
a fellow. 

SIR HowaRD [very angry, and full of the crustiest pluck] 
You insult me, sir. You are a rascal. You are a rascal. 

Fohnson, Redbrook, and a few others come in through the 
arch, 

BRASSBOUND. Take this man away. 

jounson. Where are we to put him? 

BRASSBOUND. Put him where you please so long as you 
can find him when he is wanted. 

SIR dOWARD. You will be laid by the heels yet, my 
friend, 

REDBROOK [with cheerful tact] ‘Tut tut, Sir Howard: 
whats the use of talking back? Come along: we’ll make 
you comfortable. 

Sir Howard goes out through the arch between Fohnson and 
Redbrook, muttering wrath Lfully, Lhe rest, except Brassbound 
and Lady Czcely, follow. 

Brassbound walks up and down the room, nursing his in- 
dignation. In doing so he unconsciously enters upon an unequal 
contest with Lady Cicely, who sits quietly stitching. It soon 
becomes clear that a tranquil woman can go on sewing longer 
than an angry man can go on fuming. Further, it begins to 
dawn on Brassbound’s wrath-blurred perception that Lady Cicely 
has at some unnoticed stage in the proceedings finished Marzo’s 
bandage, and is now stitching a coat. He stops; glances at his 
shirtsleeves; finally realizes the situation. 

BRASSBOUND. What are you doing there, madam? 

LaDy cicELY. Mending your coat, Captain Brassbound. 

BRASSBOUND. I have no recollection of asking you to take 
that trouble. 

LADY cicELY. No: I dont suppose you even knew it was 
torn. Some men are born untidy. You cannot very well 
receive Sidi el—what’s his name ?—with your sleeve half 
out. 

S 


DE Three Plays for Puritans = Act I 


BRASSBOUND [désconcerted | I—I1 dont know how it got 
torn. 

Laby cicELy. You should not get virtuously indignant 
with people. It bursts clothes more than anything else, 
Mr Hallam. 

BRASSBOUND [ flashing quickly} 1 beg you will not call me 
Mr Hallam. I hate the name. 

LADY CICELY. Black Paquito is your pet name, isnt it? 

BRASSBOUND [/ufi/y] I am not usually called so to my 
face, 

LaDY CICELY [turning the coat a /ittle] I’m so sorry. [S#e 
takes another piece of thread and puts it into her needle, looking 
placidly and reflectively upward meanwhile]. Do you know, 
you are wonderfully like your uncle. 

BRASSBOUND. Damnation! 

LADY CICELY. Eh? 

BrassBounD. If I thought my veins contained a drop of 
his black blood, I would drain them empty with my knife. 
I have no relations. I had a mother: that was all. 

LADY CICELY [unconvinced] I daresay you have your 
mother’s complexion. But didnt you notice Sir Howard’s 
temper, his doggedness, his high spirit: above all, his belief 
in ruling people by force, as you rule your men; and in 
revenge and punishment, just as you want to revenge your 
mother? Didnt you recognize yourself in that? 

BRASSBOUND [startled] Myself !—zin that! 

LADY CICELY [returning to the tailoring question as if her 
last remark were of no conseguence whatever| Did this sleeve 
catch you at all under the arm? Perhaps I had better make 
it a little easier for you. 

BRASSBOUND [irritably| Let my coat alone. It will do 
very well as it is. Put it down. 

LADY cicELy. Oh, dont ask me to sit doing nothing. It 
bores me so. 

BRASSBOUND. In Heaven’s name then, do what you like! 
Only dont worry me with it. 

LADY ciceLy. I’m so sorry. All the Hallams are irritable. 


Act II Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 259 
BRASSBOUND [ penning up his fury with difficulty} As I have 


already said, that remark has no application to me. 

LADY CICELY [resuming her stitching| ‘Thats so funny! 
They all hate to be told that they are like one another. 

BRASSBOUND [with the beginnings of despair in his voice] 
Why did you come here? My trap was laid for him, not 
for you. Do you know the danger you are in? 

LaDy cicELy. There’s always a danger of something or 
other. Do you think its worth bothering about? 

BRassBounD [scolding fer] Do I think! Do you think 
my coat’s worth mending? 

LADY CICELY [ prosaica/ly] Oh yes: its not so far gone as 
hac: 

BRASSBOUND. Have you any feeling? Or are you a 
fool? 

LaDy cicELy. I’m afraid I’m a dreadful fool. But I cant 
help it. I was made so, I suppose. 

BRASSBOUND. Perhaps you dont realize that your friend 
my good uncle will be pretty fortunate if he is allowed to 
live out his life as a slave with a set of chains on him? 

LaDy cicELy. Oh, I dont know about that, Mr H—I 
mean Captain Brassbound. Men are always thinking that 
they are going to do something grandly wicked to their 
enemies; but when it comes to the point, really bad men 
are just as rare as really good ones. 

BRASSBOUND. You forget that I am like my uncle, accord- 
ing to you. Have you any doubt as to the reality of his 
badness? 

LADY cicELy. Bless me! your uncle Howard is one of 
the most harmless of men—much nicer than most pro- 
fessional people. Of course he does dreadful things as a 
judge; but then if you take a man and pay him £5,000 a 
year to be wicked, and praise him for it, and have police- 
men and courts and laws and juries to drive him into it so 
that he cant help doing it, what can you expect? Sir 
Howard’s all right when he’s left to himself. We caught 
a burglar one night at Waynflete when he was staying with 


260 Three Plays for Puritans Act If 


us; and I insisted on his locking the poor man up, until 
the police came, in a room with a window opening on the 
lawn. The man came back next day and said he must 
return to a life of crime unless I gave him a job in the 
garden; and I did. It was much more sensible than giving 
him ten years penal servitude: Howard admitted it. So 
you see he’s not a bit bad really. 

BRASSBOUND. He had a fellow feeling for the thief, know- 
ing he was a thief himself. Do you forget that he sent 
my mother to prison? 

LaDy cicELy [soft/y] Were you very fond of your poor 
mother, and always very good to her? 

BRASSBOUND [rather taken aback} J was not worse than 
other sons, I suppose. 

LADY CICELY [opening her eyes very widely} Oh! Was 
that all? 

BRASSBOUND [exculpating himself, full of gloomy remem- 
brances| You dont understand. It was not always possible 
to be very tender with my mother. She had unfortunately 
a very violent temper; and she—she — 

LADY CICELY. Yes: so you told Howard. [With genuine 
pity for him] You must have had avery unhappy childhood. 

BRASSBOUND [grim/y] Hell. That was what my child- 
hood was. Hell. 

Lapy cicELy. Do you think she would really have killed 
Howard, as she threatened, if he hadnt sent her to prison? 

BRASSBOUND [breaking out again, with a growing sense of 
being morally trapped| What if she did? Why did he rob 
her? Why did he not help her to get the estate, as he got 
it for himself afterwards? 

LADY CICELY. He says he couldnt, you know. But per- 
haps the real reason was that he didnt like her. You know, 
dont you, that if you dont like people you think of all the 
reasons for not helping them, and if you like them you 
think of all the opposite reasons. 

BRASSBOUND. But his duty as a brother! 

LADY CICELY. Are you going to do your duty asa nephew? 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 261 


BRASSBOUND. Dont quibble with me. I am going to do 
my duty as a son; and you know it. 

LaDy cicELy. But I should have thought that the time 
for that was in your mother’s lifetime, when you could 
have been kind and forbearing with her. Hurting your 
uncle wont do her any good, you know. 

BRASSBOUND. It will teach other scoundrels to respect 
widows and orphans. Do you forget that there is such a 
thing as justice? 

LADY CICELY [gaily shaking out tle finished coat} Oh, if 
you are going to dress yourself in ermine and call your- 
self Justice, I give you up. You are just your uncle over 
again; only he gets £5,000 a year for it, and you do it 
for nothing. [Ste holds the coat up to see whether any further 
repairs are needed |. 

BRASSBOUND [su/ki/y| You twist my words very cleverly. 
But no man or woman has ever changed me. 

LADY cicELy. Dearme! That must be very nice for the 
people you deal with, because they can always depend on 
you; but isnt it rather inconvenient for yourself when you 
change your mind? 

BRASSBOUND. I never change my mind. 

LADY CICELY [rising with the coat in Fer hands} Oh! Oh!! 
Nothing will ever persuade me that you are as pigheaded 
as that. 

BRASSBOUND [offended] Pigheaded! 

LADY CICELY [with quick, caressing apology| No, no, no. 
Ididnt mean that. Firm! Unalterable! Resolute! Iron- 
willed! Stonewall Jackson! Thats the idea, isnt it? 

BRASSBOUND [ 4ope/ess/y] You are laughing at me. 

LADY CICELY. No: trembling, I assure you. Now will 
you try this on for me: I’m so afraid I have made it too 
tight under the arm. [S/e holds it behind him]. 

BRASSBOUND [obeying mechanically] You take me fora fool, 
I think. [He misses the sleeve}. 

Lapy cicELY. No: all men look foolish when they are 
feeling for their sleeves — 


262 Three Plays for Puritans Act Il 


BrasspounD. Agh! [He turus and snatches the coat from 
hers then puts it on himself and buttons the lowest button). 

LADY cicELy [/orrified| Stop. No. You must never 
pull a coat at the skirts, Captain Brassbound: it spoils the 
sit of it. Allow me. [Se pulls the lapels of his coat vigor- 
ously forward] Put back your shoulders. [He frozms, but 
obeys}. Thats better. [She buttons the top button]. Now 
button the rest from the top down. Does it catch you at 
all under the arm? 

BRASSBOUND [ s/serably—all resistance beaten out of him] No. 

LaDy ciceLy. ‘Thats right. Now before I go back to 
poor Marzo, say thankyou to me for mending your jacket, 
like a nice polite sailor. 

BRASSBOUND [sitting down at the table in great agitation] 
Damn you! you have belittled my whole life to me. [He 
bows his head on his hands, convulsed |, 

LADY CICELY [guite understanding, and putting ter hand 
kindly on his shoulder| Oh no. I am sure you have done 
lots of kind things and brave things, if you could only 
recollect them. With Gordon for instance? Nobody can 
belittle that. 

He looks up at Fer for a moment, then kisses her hand. 
She presses his and turns away with her eyes so wet that she sees 
Drinkwater, coming in through the arch just then, with a 
prismatic halo round him. Even when she sees hin clearly, she 
hardly recognizes him; for he is ludicrously clean and smoothly 
brusted; and his hair, formerly mud color, is now a lively red. 

DRINKWATER. Look eah, kepn. [Brassbound springs up 
and recovers himself quickly}, Eahs the bloomin Shike jest 
appeahd on the orawzn wiv abaht fifty men. Thyll be 
eah insawd o ten minnits, they will. 

Lapy ciceLy. The Sheikh! 

BRaAssBouUND. Sidi el Assif and fifty men! [Zo Lady 
Cicely] You were too late: 1 gave you up my vengeance 
when it was no longer in my hand. [Zo Drinkwater] Call 
all hands to stand by and shut the gates. ‘chen all here to 
me for orders; and bring the prisoner. 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 263 


DRINKWATER. Rawt, kepn. [J/e runs out]. 

LADY CICELY. Is there really any danger for Howard? 

BRASSBOUND. Yes. Danger for all of us unless I keep to 
my bargain with this fanatic. 

LaDy ciceELy. What bargain? 

BRASSBOUND. I pay him so much a head for every party 
I escort through to the interior. In return he protects me 
and lets my caravans alone. But I have sworn an oath to 
him to take only Jews and true believers—no Christians, 
you understand. 

LADY cicELY. Then why did you take us? 

BRasspouNnD. I took my uncle on purpose—-and sent 
word to Sidi that he was here. 

LADY CICELY. Well, thats a pretty kettle of fish, isnt it? 

BRASSBOUND. I will do what I can to save him—and 
you. But I fear my repentance has come too late, as re- 
pentance usually does. 

LADY cIcELY [cheerfully] Well, I must go and look after 
Marzo, at all events. [She goes out through the little door. 
Fohnson, Redbrook and the rest come in through the arch, with 
Sir Howard, still very crusty and determined. He keeps close 
to Fohnson, who comes to Brassbound’s right, Redbrook taking 
the other side). 

BrasspounD. Where’s Drinkwater? 

jounson. On the lookout. Look here, Capn: we dont 
half like this job. The gentleman has been talking to us 
a bit; and we think that he is a gentleman, and talks 
straight sense. 

REDBROOK. Righto, Brother Johnson. [Zo Brassbound | 
Wont do, governor. Not good enough. 

BRASSBOUND [ fiercely] Mutiny, eh? 

REDBROOK. Not at all, governor. Dont talk Tommy rot 
with Brother Sidi only five minutes gallop off. Cant hand 
over an Englishman to a nigger to have his throat cut. 

BRASSBOUND [unexpectedly acquiescing| Very good. You 
know, I suppose, that if you break my bargain with Sidi, 
youll have to defend this place and fight for your lives in 


264. Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


five minutes. ‘That cant be done without discipline: you 

know that too. Ill take my part with the rest under what- 

ever leader you are willing to obey. So choose your captain 

and look sharp about it. [Murmurs of surprise and discontent). 
voices. No, no. Brassbound must command. 

BRASSBOUND. Youre wasting your five minutes. Try 
Johnson. 

jounson. No. I havnt the head for it. 

BRassBouNnD. Well, Redbrook. 

rEDBROOK. Notthis Johnny, thank you. Havntcharacter 
enough. 

BRassBouND. Well, there’s Sir Howard Hallam for you! 
He has character enough. 

a voice. He’s too old. 

ALL. No, no. Brassbound, Brassbound. 

jounson. ‘Theres nobody but you, Captain. 

REDBROOK. The mutiny’s over, governor. You win, 
hands down. — 

BRASSBOUND [turning on them] Now listen, you, all of you. 
If I am to command here, I am going to do what I like, 
not what you like. I’ll give this gentleman here to Sidi or 
to the devil if I choose. I’ll not be intimidated or talked 
back to. Is that understood? 

REDBROOK [diplomatically] He’s offered a present of five 
hundred quid if he gets safe back to Mogador, governor. 
Excuse my mentioning it. 

sR HowARD. Myself and Lady Cicely. 

BRASSBOUND. What! A judge compound a felony! You 
greenhorns, he is more likely to send you all to penal 
servitude if you are fools enough to give him the chance. 

voices. Sohe would. Whew! [Murmurs of conviction]. 

REDBROOK. Righto, governor. Thats the ace of trumps. 

BRASSBOUND [to Sir Howard] Now, have you any other 
card to play? Any other bribe? Any other threat? Quick. 
Time presses. 

sik HOWARD. My life is in the hands of Providence. Do 
your worst. 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 265 


BRASSBOUND. Or my best. I still have that choice. 

DRINKWATER [running in] Look eah, kepn. Eahs anather 
lot cammin from the sahth heast. Hunnerds of em, this 
tawm. The owl dezzit is lawk a bloomin Awd Pawk 
demonstrition. Aw blieve its the Kidy from Kuntorfy. 
[General alarm. All lock to Brassbound |. 

BRassBouND [eager/y] The Cadi! How far off? 

DRINKWATER. Matter o two mawl. 

BRASSBOUND. We're saved. Open the gates to the Sheikh. 
[ They stare at him]. Look alive there. 

DRINKWATER [appalled, almost in tears| Naow, naow. 
Lissn, kepn [ pointing to Sir Howard): el give huz fawv 
unnerd red uns. [Zo the others] Ynt yer spowk to im, 
Miste Jornsn — Miste Redbrook — 

BRASSBOUND [cutting him short] Now then, do you under- 
stand plain English? Johnson and Redbrook: take what 
men you want and open the gates to the Sheikh. Let 
him come straight to me. Look alive, will you. 

JOHNSON. Ay ay, sir. 

REDBROOK. Righto, governor. 

They hurry out, with a few others. Drinkwater stares 
after them, dumbfounded by their obedience. 

BRASSBOUND [faking out a pistol] You wanted to sell me 
to my prisoner, did you, you dog. 

DRINKWATER [ falling on his knees with a yell) Naow! 
[Brassbound turns on him as if to kick kim. He scrambles away 
and takes refuge behind Sir Howard). 

BRASSBOUND. Sir Howard Hallam: you have one chance 
left. The Cadi of Kintafi stands superior to the Sheikh as 
the responsible governor of the whole province. It is the 
Cadi who will be sacrificed by the Sultan if England de- 
mands satisfaction for any injury to you. If we can hold 
the Sheikh in parley until the Cadi arrives, you may 
frighten the Cadi into forcing the Sheikh to release you. 
The Cadi’s coming is a lucky chance for you. 

SIR HOWARD. If it were a real chance, you would not 
tell me of it. Dont try to play cat and mouse with me, man. 


266 Three Plays for Puritans Act Il 


DRINKWATER [aside to Sir Howard, as Brasshound turns 
contemptuously away to the other side of the room] It ynt mach 
of a chawnst, Sr Ahrd. But if there was a ganbowt in 
Mogador Awbr, awd put a bit on it, aw would. 

Fohnson, Redbrook, and the others return, rather mistrust- 
fully uskering in Sidi el Assif, attended by Osman and a troop 
of Arabs. Brassbound’s men keep together on the archway side, 
backing their captain, Sidi’s followers cross the room behind 
the table and assemble near Sir Howard, who stands his ground. 
Drinkwater runs across to Brassbound and stands at his elbow 
as he turns to face Sidi. 

Sidi el Assif, clad in spotless white, is a nobly handsome 
Arab, hardly thirty, with fine eyes, bronzed complexion, and 
instinctively dignified carriage. He places himself between the 
two groups, with Osman in attendance at his right hand. 

osMan [ pointing out Sir Howard] 'This is the infidel 
Cadi. [Sir Howard bows to Sidi, but, being an infidel, receives 
only the haughtiest stare in acknowledgement|. ‘This [ pointing 
to Brassbound | is Brassbound the Franguestani captain, the 
servant of Sidi. 

DRINKWATER [wot to be outdone, points out the Sheikh and 
Osman to Brassbound|'This eah is the Commawnder of the 
Fythful an is Vizzeer Hosman. 

spr, Where is the woman? 

osMAN. The shameless one 1s not here. 

BRASSBOUND. Sidi el Assif, kinsman of the Prophet: you 
are welcome. 

REDBROOK [with much aplomb| ‘There is no majesty and 
no might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great ! 

DRINKWATER. Eah, eah! 

osman [to Sidi] The servant of the captain makes his 
profession of faith as a true believer. 

sipI. It is well. 

BRASSBOUND [aside to Redbrook| Where did you pick that 
up? 

3 REDBROOKX [aside to Brassbound| Captain Burton’s Arabian 
Nights—copy in the library of the National Liberal Club. 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 267 


LaDY CICELY [calling without] Mr Drinkwater. Come 
and help me with Marzo. [Zhe S+eiks Be up bis ears. 
His nostrils and eyes expand. 

osMAN. The shameless one ! 

BRASSBOUND [to Drinkwater, seizing him by the collar and 
slinging him towards the door| Of with you. 

Drinkwater goes out through the little door. 

osMAN. Shall we hide her face before she enters? 

sip1. No. 

Lady Cicely, who has resumed ler travelling equipment, and 
has Fer hat slung across her arm, comes through the little door 
supporting Marzo, who is very white, but able to get about. 
Drinkwater has his other arm. Redbrook hastens to relieve 
Lady Cicely of Marzo, taking him into the group behind 
Brassbound. Lady Cicely comes forward between Brassbound 
and the Sheikh, to whom she turns affably. 

LADY CICELY [ proffering her hand] Sidi el Assif, isnt it? 
How dye do? [He recoils, blushing somewhat). 

OsMAN [scandalized | Woman: touch not the kinsman of 
the Prophet. 

LADY cicELY. Oh, I see. I’m being presented at court. 
Very good. [She makes a presentation curtsey]. 

REDBROOK. Sidi el Assif: this is one of the mighty 
women Sheikhs of Franguestan. She goes unveiled among 
Kings; and only princes may touch her hand. 

LaDy cicELy. Allah upon thee, Sidi el Assif! Be a good 
little Sheikh, and shake hands. 

sip [timidly touching fer hand| Now this is a wonderful 
thing, and worthy to be chronicled with the story of 
Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. Is it not so, Osman 
Ali? 

osMAN. Allah upon thee, master! it is so. 

sipt. Brassbound Ali: the oath of a just man fulfils itself 
without many words. The infidel Cadi, thy captive, falls 
to my share. 

BRASSBOUND [ firmly] It cannot be, Sidi el Assif. [Sidi’s 
brows contract gravely). The price of his blood will be 


268 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


required of our lord the Sultan. Iwill take him to Morocco 
and deliver him up there. 

sipi [zpressive/y] Brassbound: I am in mine own house 
and amid mine own people. J am the Sultan here. Con- 
sider what you say; for when my word goes forth for life 
or death, it may not be recalled. 

_ BRassBounp. Sidi el Assif; Iwill buy the man from you 
at what price you choose to name; and if I do not pay 
faithfully, you shall take my head for his. 

sip1. It is well. You shall keep the man, and give me 
the woman 1n payment. 

SIR HOWARD AND BRASSBOUND [ with the sameimpulse| No, no. 

LADY CICELY [eager/y] Yes, yes. Certainly, Mr Sidi. 
Certainly. 

Sidi smiles gravely. 

SIR HOWARD. Impossible. 

BRASSBOUND. You dont know what youre doing. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, dont I? Ive not crossed Africa and 
stayed with six cannibal chiefs for nothing. [70 the Sheikh] 
It’s all right, Mr Sidi: I shall be delighted. 

SIR HOWARD. You are mad. Do you suppose this man 
will treat you as a European gentleman would? 

LADY CICELY. No: he’ll treat me like one of Nature’s 
gentlemen: look at his perfectly splendid face! [ Address- 
ing Osman as if he were her oldest and most attached retainer | 
Osman: be sure you choose me a good horse ; and get a 
nice strong camel for my luggage. 

Osman, after a moment of stupefaction, hurries out. Lady 
Cicely puts on Ler hat and pins it to her hair, the Sheikh gazing 
at her during the process with timid admiration. 

DRINKWATER [c/uckling| She’ll mawch em all to church 
next Sunder lawk a bloomin lot o’ cherrity kids: you see 
if she downt. 

LADY CICELY [ézsz/ly] Goodbye, Howard: dont be 
anxious about me; and above all, dont bring a parcel of 
men with guns to rescue me. I shall be all right now that 
I am getting away from the escort. Captain Brassbound : 


Act Il Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 269 


I rely on you to see that Sir Howard gets safe to Mogador. 
(Whispering) Take your hand off that pistol. [He takes his 
hand out of his pocket, reluctantly]. Goodbye. 

A tumult without. They all turn appretensively to the arch. 
Osman rushes in. 

osMaN. The Cadi, the Cadi. He is in anger. His men 
are upon us. Defend — 

The Cadi, a vigorous, fat/eatured, choleric, whitehaired and 
bearded elder, rushes in, cudgel in hand, with an overwhelming 
retinue, and silences Osman with a sounding thwack. In a 
moment the back of the room is crowded with his followers. 
The Sheikh retreats a little towards his men, and the Cadi 
comes impetuously forward between him and Lady Cicely. 

THE caDI. Now woe upon thee, Sidi el Assif, thou child 
of mischief ! 

sipi [steraly] Am I a dog, Muley Othman, that thou 
speakest thus to me? 

THE capi. Wilt thou destroy thy country, and give us 
all into the hands of them that set the sea on fire but 
yesterday with their ships of war? Where are the Fran- 
guestani captives? 

LADY CICELY. Here we are, Cadi. How dye do? 

THE capi. Allah upon thee, thou moon at the full! 
Where is thy kinsman, the Cadi of Franguestan? I am his 
friend, his servant. I come on behalf of my master the 
Sultan to do him honor, and to cast down his enemies. 

SIR HOWARD. You are very good, I am sure. 

sip [graver than ever| Muley Othman — 

THE caDiI [fumbling in his breast] Peace, peace, thou 
inconsiderate one. [fe takes out a Jetter],. 

BRASSBOUND. Cadi — 

THE caDI. Oh thou dog, thou, thou accursed Brassbound, 
son of a wanton: it is thou hast led Sidi el Assif into this 
wrongdoing. Read this writing that thou has brought upon 
me from the commander of the warship. 

BRASSBOUND. Warship! [Fle takes the letter and opens it, 
his men whispering to one another very low-spiritedly meanwhile}. 


270 Three Plays for Puritans Act II 


REDBROOK. Warship! Whew! 

jounson. Gunboat, praps. 

DRINKWATER. Lawk bloomin Worterleoo buses, they 
are, on this cowst. 

Brassbound folds up the letter, looking glum. 

sIR HOWARD [sharply] Well, sir, are we not to have the 
benefit of that letter? Your men are waiting to hear it, I 
think. 

BRASSBOUND. It is not a British ship. [Sir Howard’s face 
falls), 

LADY CICELY. What is it, then? 

BrassBounD. An American cruiser. The Santiago. 

THE capi [tearing his beard| Woe! alas! itis where they 
set the sea on fire. 

sip. Peace, Muley Othman: Allah is still above us. 

joHnson. Would you mind readin it to us, capn? 

BRASSBOUND [ grimly] Oh, I'll read it to you. ‘* Mogador 
Harbor. 26 Sept 1899. Captain Hamlin Kearney, of the 
cruiser Santiago, presents the compliments of the United 
States to the Cadi Muley Othman el Kintaf, and announces 
that he is coming to look for the two British travellers Sir 
Howard Hallam and Lady Cicely Waynflete, in the Cadi’s 
jurisdiction. As the search will be conducted with machine 
guns, the prompt return of the travellers to Mogador 
Harbor will save much trouble to all parties.” 

THE capi. As I live, O Cadi, and thou, moon of loveli- 
ness, ye shall be led back to Mogador with honor. And 
thou, accursed Brassbound, shalt go thither a prisoner in 
chains, thou and thy people. [Brassbound and his men make 
a movement to defend themselves|. Seize them. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, please dont fight. [Brassbound, seeing 
that his men are hopelessly outnumbered, makes no resistance. 
They are made prisoners by the Cadi’s followers}. 

sip [attempting to draw his scimitar| ‘The woman 1s 
mine: I will not forego her. [He is seized and overpowered 
after a Homeric struggle). 

sIR HOWARD [dri/y] I told you you were not in a strong 


Act II Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 274 


position, Captain Brassbound [Looking implacably at him] 
You are laid by the heels, my friend, as I said you would 
be; 

LADY CICELY. But I assure you — 

BRASSBOUND [iaterrupting fer] What have you to assure 
him of ? You persuaded me to spare him. Look at his face. 
Will you be able to persuade him to spare me? 


ACT III 


Torrid forenoon filtered through small Moorish windows 
high up in the adobe walls of the largest room in Leslie 
Rankin’s house. A clean cool room, with the table (a Christian 
article) set in the middle, a presidentially elbowed chair behind 
it, and an inkstand and paper ready for the sitter. A couple 
of cheap American chairs right and left of the table, facing the 
same way as the presidential chair, give a judicial aspect to the 
arrangement. Rankin is placing a little tray with a jug and 
some glasses near the inkstand when Lady Cicely’s voice 
is heard at the door, which is behind him in the corner to his 
right. 


LADY CICELY. Good morning. May I come in? 

RANKIN. Certainly. [S4e comes in to the nearest end of the 
table. She has discarded all travelling equipment, and is 
dressed exactly as she might be in Surrey on a very hot day}. 
Sit ye doon, Leddy Ceecily. 

LADY CICELY [sitting down] How nice youve made the 
room for the inquiry ! 

RANKIN [doubtfully| I could wish there were more chairs. 
Yon American captain will preside in this; and that leaves 
but one for Sir Howrrd and one for your leddyship. I 
could almost be tempted to call it a maircy that your 
friend that owns the yacht has sprained his ankle and 
cannot come. I misdoubt me it will not look judeecial to 
have Captain Kearney’s officers squatting on the floor. 


Act II Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 273 


LADY CICELY. Oh, they wont mind. What about the 
prisoners? 

RANKIN. They are to be broat here from the town gaol 
presently. 

LaDy ciceLy. And where 1s that silly old Cadi, and my 
handsome Sheikh Sidi? I must see them before the inquiry, 
or theyll give Captain Kearney quite a false impression of 
what happened. 

RANKIN. But ye cannot see them. They decamped last 
night, back to their castles in the Atlas. 

LaDy cicELY [delighted | No! 

RANKIN. Indeed and they did. The poor Cadi is so 
tarrified by all he has haird of the destruction of the 
Spanish fleet, that he darent trust himself in the captain’s 
hands. [Looking reproachfully at her| On your journey back 
here, ye seem to have frightened the poor man yourself, 
Leddy Ceecily, by talking to him about the fanatical 
Chreestianity of the Americans. Ye have largely yourself 
to thank if he’s gone. 

LaDy cicELy. Allah be praised! What a weight off our 
minds, Mr Rankin! 

RANKIN [ puzzled] And why? Do ye not understand 
how necessary their evidence is? 

LADY CICELY. Their evidence! It would spoil every- 
thing. They would perjure themselves out of pure spite 
against poor Captain Brassbound. 

RANKIN [amazed| Do ye call him poor Captain Brass- 
bound! Does not your leddyship know that this Brass- 
bound is—Heaven forgive me for judging him!—a 
precious scoundrel? Did ye not hear what Sir Howrrd 
told me on the yacht last night? 

LADY CICELY. All a mistake, Mr Rankin: all a mistake, 
T assure you. You said just now, Heaven forgive you for 
judging him! Well, thats just what the whole quarrel is 
about. Captain Brassbound is just like you: he thinks we 
have no right to judge one another; and as Sir Howard 
gets £5,000 a year for doing nothing else but judging 

7 


274 Three Plays for Puritans = Act II 


people, he thinks poor Captain Brassbound a regular 
Anarchist. They quarrelled dreadfully at the castle. You 
mustnt mind what Sir Howard says about him: you really 
mustnt. 

RANKIN. But his conduct — 

LaDy ciceLy. Perfectly saintly, Mr Rankin. Worthy of 
yourself in your best moments. He forgave Sir Howard, 
and did all he could to save him. 

RANKIN. Ye astoanish me, Leddy Ceecily. 

Lapy ciceLy. And think of the temptation to behave 
badly when he had us all there helpless! 

RANKIN. The temptation! ay: thats true. Yere ower 
bonny to be cast away among a parcel o lone, lawless men, 
my leddy. 

LADY CICELY [zaZve/y] Bless me, thats quite true; and I 
never thought of it! Oh, after that you really must do all 
you can to help Captain Brassbound. 

RANKIN [reservedly] No: I cannot say that, Leddy 
Ceecily. I doubt he has imposed on your good nature and 
sweet disposeetion. I had a crack with the Cadi as well 
as with Sir Howrrd; and there is little question in my 
mind but that Captain Brassbound is no better than a 
breegand. 

LADY CICELY [apparently deeply impressed| I wonder 
whether he can be, Mr Rankin. If you think so, thats 
heavily against him in my opinion, because you have more 
knowledge of men than anyone else here. Perhaps I’m 
mistaken. J only thought you might like to help him as 
the son of your old friend. 

RANKIN [startled] The son of my old friend! What 
d’ye mean? 

Lapy ciceLy. Oh! Didnt Sir Howard tell you that? 
Why, Captain Brassbound turns out to be Sir Howard’s 
nephew, the son of the brother you knew. 

RaNkKIN [overwhelmed] I saw the likeness the night he 
came here! It’s true: it’s true. Uncle and nephew! 

Laby ciceLy. Yes: thats why they quarrelled so. 


ActIII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 275 


RANKIN [with a momentary sense of ill usage) 1 think Sir 
Howrrd might have told me that. 

LADY CICELY. Of course he ought to have told you. 
You see he only tells one side of the story. That comes 
from his training as a barrister. You mustnt think he’s 
naturally deceitful: if he’d been brought up asa clergyman, 
he’d have told you the whole truth as a matter of course. 

RANKIN [too much perturbed to dwell on his grievance] 
Leddy Ceecily: I must go to the prison and see the lad. 
He may have been a bit wild; but I cant leave poor 
Miles’s son unbefriended in a foreign gaol. 

LADY CICELY [rising, radiant) Oh, how good of you! 
You have a real kind heart of gold, Mr Rankin. Now, be- 
fore you go, shall we just put our heads together, and con- 
sider how to give Miles’s son every chance —I1 mean of 
course every chance that he ought to have. 

RANKIN [rather addled|1 am so confused by this astoan- 
ishing news — 

LADY CICELY. Yes, yes: of course you are. But dont 
you think he would make a better impression on the 
American captain if he were a little more respectably 
dressed? 

RaNKIN. Mebbe. But how can that be remedied here 
in Mogador? 

LADY CICELY. Oh, Ive thought of that. You know I’m 
going back to England by way of Rome, Mr Rankin; and 
I’m bringing a portmanteau full of clothes for my brother 
there : he’s ambassador, you know, and has to be very 
particular as to what he wears. I had the portmanteau 
brought here this morning. Now would you mind taking 
it to the prison, and smartening up Captain Brassbound a 
little. Tell him he ought to do it to shew his respect for 
me; and he will. It will be quite easy: there are two 
Krooboys waiting to carry the portmanteau. You will: I 
know you will. [S#e edges him to the door]. And do you 
think there is time to get him shaved? 

RANKIN [succumbing, half bewildered| I'll do my best. 


276 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


Laby cicELy. I know you will. [4s 4e is going out] 
Oh! one word, Mr Rankin. [He comes back}. The Cadi 
didnt know that Captain Brassbound was Sir Howard’s 
nephew, did he? 

RANKIN. No. 

Lapy ciceLty. Then he must have misunderstood every- 
thing quite dreadfully. I’m afraid, Mr Rankin — though 
you know best, of course —that we are bound not to repeat 
anything at the inquiry that the Cadi said. He didnt know, 
you see. 7 

RANKIN [cannily] I take your point, Leddy Ceecily. 
It alters the case. I shall certainly make no allusion to it. 

LADY CICELY [maguanimously| Well, then, I wont either. 
Elere! 

They shake hands on it. Sir Howard comes in. 

sIR HOWARD. Good morning, Mr Rankin. I hope you 
got home safely from the yacht last night. 

RANKIN. Quite safe, thank ye, Sir Howrrd. 

LADY cicELY. Howard : he’s ina hurry. Dont make him 
stop to talk. 

sIR HowARD, Very good, very good. [He comes to the 
table and takes Lady Cicely’s chair). 

RANKIN. Oo revoir, Leddy Ceecily. 

LaDy CICELY. Bless you, Mr Rankin. [ Rawkin goes out. She 
comes to the other end of the table, looking at Sir Howard with 
a troubled, sorrowfully sympathetic air, but unconsciously making 
her right hand stalk about the table on the tips of its fingers in 
a tentative stealthy way which would put Sir Howard on his 
guard if he were in a suspicious frame of mind, which, as it 
happens, he is not]. I'm so sorry for you, Howard, about 
this unfortunate inquiry. 

SIR HOWARD [swinging round on his chair, astonished | Sorry 
forme! Why? 

LADY cicELY. It will look so dreadful. Your own 
nephew, you know. 

SIR HOWARD. Cicely: an English judge has no nephews, 
no sons even, when he has to carry out the law. 


ActIII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 277 


LADY CICELY. But then he oughtnt to have any property 
either. People will never understand about the West 
Indian Estate. Theyll think youre the wicked uncle out 
of the Babes in the Wood. [With a fresh gush of compassion] 
I’m soso sorry for you. 

SIR HOWARD [ratfer stifiy| I really do not see how I 
need your commiseration, Cicely. The woman was an im- 
possible person, half mad, half drunk. Do you understand 
what such a creature is when she has a grievance, and 
imagines some innocent person to be the author of it. 

LADY CICELY [2ith atouch of impatience] Oh, quite. Thatl]] 
be made clear enough. I can see it all in the papers al- 
ready: our half mad, half drunk sister-in-law, making 
scenes with you in the street, with the police called in, and 
prison and all the rest of it. The family will be furious. 
[Sir Howard quails. She instantly follows up fer advantage 
with\ 'Think of papa ! 

SIR HOWARD. I shall expect Lord Waynflete to look at 
the matter as a reasonable man. 

LADY CICELY. Do you think he’s so greatly changed as 
that, Howard? 

sIR,HOWARD [ falling back on the fatalism of the deper- 
sonalized public man| My dear Cicely: there is no use dis- 
cussing the matter. It cannot be helped, however disagree- 
able it may be. 

LADY CICELY. Of course not. Thats whats so dreadful. 
Do you think people will understand? 

sIR HOWARD. I really cannot say. Whether they do or 
not, J cannot help it. 

LaDY cicELy. If you were anybody but a judge, it 
wouldnt matter so much. But a judge mustnt even be 
misunderstood. [ Despairing/ly| Oh, it’s dreadful, Howard: 
it’s terrible! What would poor Mary say if she were alive 
now? 

SIR HOWARD [zoith emotion] I dont think, Cicely, that my 
dear wife would misunderstand me. 

LaDy CICELY. No: she’d know you mean well. And 


278 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


when you came home and said, “‘ Mary: Ive just told all 
the world that your sister-in-law was a police court 
criminal, and that I sent her to prison ; and your nephew 
is a brigand, and I’m sending him to prison,” she’d have 
thought it must be all right because you did it. But you 
dont think she would have liked it, any more than papa 
and the rest of us, do you? 

SIR HOWARD [appalled] But what am I to do? Do you 
ask me to compound a felony? 

LADY CICELY [sterz/y] Certainly not. I would not allow 
such a thing, even if you were wicked enough to attempt 
it. No. What I say is, that you ought not to tell the story 
yourself. 

SIR HOWARD. Why? 

LaDY CICELY. Because everybody would say you are such 
a clever lawyer you could make a poor simple sailor like 
Captain Kearney believe anything. ‘The proper thing for 
you to do, Howard, 1s to let me tell the exact truth. Then 
you can simply say that you are bound to confirm me. 
Nobody can blame you for that. 

SIR HOWARD [ooking suspiciously at her] Cicely: you are 
up to some devilment. 

LaDY CICELY [ promptly washing her hands of his interests] 
Oh, very well. Tell the story yourself, in your own clever 
way. I only proposed to tell the exact truth. You call 
that devilment. So itis, I daresay, from a lawyer’s point 
of view. 

SIR HOWARD. I hope youre not offended. 

LADY CICELY [with the utmost goodhbumor) My dear 
Howard, not a bit. Of course youre right: you know how 
these things ought to be done. I’ll do exactly what you 
tell me, and confirm everything you say. 

SIR HOWARD [alarmed by the completeness of his victory | 
Oh, my dear, you mustnt act in my interest. You must 
give your evidence with absolute impartiality. [She nods, 
as if thoroughly impressed and reproved, and gazes at him with 
the steadfast candor peculiar to liars who read novels. His eyes 


ActIII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 279 


turn to the ground; and his brow clouds perplexedly. He rises ; 
rubs his chin nervously with his forefinger ; and adds\ 1 think, 
perhaps, on reflection, that there is something to be said 
for your proposal to relieve me of the very painful duty of 
telling what has occurred. 

LaDy cicELy [Ao/ding off | But youd do it so very much 
better. 

SIR HOWARD. For that very reason, perhaps, it had better 
’ come from you. 

LADY CICELY [ré/uctantly| Well, if youd rather. 

sIR HOWARD. But mind, Cicely, the exact truth. 

LADY CICELY [with conviction] The exact truth. [7Z7Zey 
shake hands on it). 

stIR HowaRD [Aolding her hand] Fiat justitia: ruat 
ceelum ! 

LaDy cicELy. Let Justice be done, though the ceiling 
fall! 

An American bluejacket appears at the door. 

BLUEJACKET. Captain Kearney’s cawmpliments to Lady 
Waynflete ; and may he come in? 

Lapy cicELy. Yes. By all means. Where are the 
prisoners ? 

BLUEJACKET. Party gawn to the jail to fetch em, marm. 

Lapy cicELY. Thank you. I should like to be told when 
they are coming, if I might. 

BLUEJACKET. You shall so, marm. [He stands aside, 
saluting, to admit his captain, and goes out]. 

Captain Hamlin Kearney is a robustly built western 
American, with the keen, squeezed, wind beaten eyes and obsti- 
nately enduring mouth of his profession. A curious ethnological 
specimen, with all the nations of the old world at war in his 
veins, he is developing artificially in the direction of sleekness 
and culture under the restraints of an overwhelming dread of 
European criticism, and climatically in the direction of the in- 
digenous North American, who is already in possession of his 
hair, his cheekbones, and the manlier instincts in him which the 
sea has rescued from civilization. The world, pondering on the 


280 Three Plays for Puritans Act III 


great part of its own future which is in his hands, contemplates 
him with wonder as to what the devil te will evolve into in 
another century or two. Meanwhile he presents himself to Lady 
Cicely as a blunt sailor who has something to say to her concern- 
ing ber conduct which le wishes to put politely, as becomes an 
officer addressing a lady, but also with an emphatically implied 
rebuke, as an American addressing an English person who has 
taken a liberty. 

LADY CICELY [as /e enters] So glad youve come, Captain 
Kearney. 

KEARNEY [coming between Sir Howard and Lady Cicely] 
When we parted yesterday ahfternoon, Lady Waynflete, I 
was unaware that in the course of your visit to my ship 
you had entirely altered the sleeping arrangements of my 
stokers. I thahnk you. As captain of the ship, I am custom- 
airily cawnsulted before the orders of English visitors are 
carried out; but as your alterations appear to cawndooce 
to the comfort of the men, I have not interfered with them. 

LADY CICELY. How clever of you to find out! I believe 
you know every bolt in that ship. 

Kearney softens perceptibly. 

SIR HOWARD. I am really very sorry that my sister-in-law 
has taken so serious a liberty, Captain Kearney. It is a 
mania of hers— simply a mania. Why did your men pay 
any attention to her? 

KEARNEY [with gravely dissembled humor| Well, 1 ahsked 
that question too. I said, Why did you obey that lady’s 
orders instead of waiting for mine? They said they didnt 
see exactly how they could refuse. I ahsked whether they 
cawnsidered that discipline. They said, Well, sir, will you 
talk to the lady yourself next time? 

LADY CICELY. I’m so sorry. But you know, Captain, the 
one thing that one misses on board a man-of-war is a woman. 

KEARNEY. We often feel that deprivation verry keenly, 
Lady Waynflete. 

Lapy ciceLy. My uncle is first Lord of the Admiralty ; 
and I am always telling him what a scandal it is that an 


Act II Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 281 


English captain should be forbidden to take his wife on 
board to look after the ship. 

KEARNEY. Stranger still, Lady Waynflete, he is not for- 
bidden to take any other lady. Yours is an extraordinairy 
country —to an Amerrican. 

LADY CICELY. But it’s most serious, Captain. The poor 
men go melancholy mad, and ram each other’s ships and 
do all sorts of things. 

sIR HowaARD. Cicely: I beg you will not talk nonsense 
to Captain Kearney. Your ideas on some subjects are 
really hardly decorous. 

LADY CICELY [fo Kearney} Thats what English people 
are like, Captain Kearney. They wont hear of anything 
concerning you poor sailors except Nelson and Trafalgar. 
You understand me, dont you? 

KEARNEY [ ga//ant/y] 1 cawnsider that you have more 
sense in your wedding ring finger than the British Ahdmir- 
alty has in its whole cawnstitootion, Lady Waynflete. 

LADY CICELY. Of course I have. Sailors always under- 
stand things. 

The bluejacket reappears. 

BLUEJACKET [to Lady Cicely] Prisoners coming up the 
hill, marm. 

KEARNEY [turning sharply on him| Who sent you in to 
say that? 

BLUEJACKET [ca/m/y] British lady’s orders, sir. [He goes 
out, unruffied, leaving Kearney dumbfounded |. 

SIR HOWARD [contemplating Kearney’s expression with dis- 
may| I am really very sorry, Captain Kearney. I am quite 
aware that Lady Cicely has no right whatever to give orders 
to your men. 

LaDy CICELY. I didnt give orders: I just asked him. 
He has such a nice face! Dont you think so, Captain 
Kearney? [He gasps, speechless], And now will you excuse 
me a moment. I want to speak to somebody before the 
inquiry begins. [Se Aurries out). 

KEARNEY. There is sertnly a wonderful chahm about 


282 Three Plays for Puritans — ActIH 


the British aristocracy, Sir Howard Hallam. Are they all 
like that? [Le takes the presidential chair). 

SIR HOWARD [resuming fis seat on Kearney’s right] Fortu- 
nately not, Captain Kearney. Half a dozen such women 
would make an end of law in England in six months, 

The bluejacket comes to the door again. 

BLUEJACKET. All ready, sir. 

KEARNEY. Verry good. J'm waiting. 

The bluejacket turns and intimates this to those without. 
Tre officers of the Santiago enter. 

siR HOWARD [rising and bobbing to them in a judicial 
manner| Good morning, gentlemen. 

They acknowledge the greeting rather shyly, bowing or 
touching their caps, and stand in a group behind Kearney. 

KEARNEY [fo Sir Howard] You will be glahd to hear that 
I have a verry good account of one of our prisoners from 
our chahplain, who visited them in the gaol. He has ex- 
pressed a wish to be cawnverted to Episcopalianism. 

siIR HowaRD [dri/y] Yes, I think I know him. 

KEARNEY. Bring in the prisoners. 

BLUEJACKET [at the door] They are engaged with the 
British lady, sir. Shall I ask her — 

KEARNEY [ jumping up and exploding in storm piercing tones] 
Bring in the prisoners. Tell the lady those are my orders. 
Doyou hear? Tell herso. [Zhe dluejacket goes out dubiously. 
The officers look at one another in mute comment on the un- 
accountable pepperiness of their commander |. 

SIR HOWARD [szave/y | Mr Rankin will be present, I presume. 

KEARNEY [avgri/y] Rahnkin! Who is Rahnkin? 

sIR HOWARD. Our host the missionary. 

KEARNEY [subsiding unwillingly} Oh! Rahnkin, is he? 
He’d better look sharp or he'll be late. [Again exploding | 
What are they doing with those prisoners ? 

Rankin hurries in, and takes his place near Sir Howard. 

sIR HOWARD. This is Mr Rankin, Captain Kearney. 

RANKIN. Excuse my delay, Captain Kearney. The leddy 
sent me on an errand. [Kearney grunts]. I thoaght I should 


Act III Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 28 3 


be late. But the first thing I heard when I arrived was 
your officer giving your compliments to Leddy Ceccily, 
and would she kindly allow the prisoners to come in, as 
you were anxious to see her again. Then I knew I was in 
time. 

KEARNEY. Oh, that was it, was it? May I ask, sir, did 
you notice any sign on Lady Waynflete’s part of cawmplying 
with that verry moderate request. 

LADY CICELY [outside] Coming, coming. 

Lhe prisoners are brought in by a guard of armed blue- 
jackets. Drinkwater first, again elaborately clean, and conveying 
by a virtuous and steadfast smirk a cheerful confidence in his 
innocence. Fobnscn solid and inexpressive, Redbrook unconcerned 
and debonair, Marzo uneasy. These four form a little group 
together on the captain’s left. The rest wait unintelligently on 
Providence in a row against the wall on the same side, slep- 
herded by the bluejackets. The first bluejacket, a petty officer, 
posts himself on the captain’s right, behind Rankin and Sir 
Howard. Finally Brassbound appears with Lady Cicely on bis 
arm. He is in fashionable frock coat and trousers, spotless 
collar and cuffs, and elegant boots. He carries a glossy tall 
hat in his hand. To an unsophisticated eye, the change is mon- 
strous and appalling ; and its effect on himself is so unmanning 
that he is quite out of countenance —a shaven Samson. Lady 
Cicely, however, is greatly pleased with it ; and the rest regard 
it as an unquestionable improvement. The officers fall back 
gallantly to allow her to pass. Kearney rises to receive her, and 
stares with some surprise at Brassbound as she stops at the table 
on his left. Sir Howard rises punctiliously when Kearney rises 
and sits when he sits. 

KEARNEY. Is this another gentleman of your party, Lady 
Waynflete ? I presume I met you lahst night, sir, on board 
the yacht. 

BRassBoUND. No. [ am your prisoner. My name is 
Brassbound. 

DRINKWATER | offictous/y] Kepn Brarsbahnd, of the schooner 
Thenksgiv — 


284 Three Plays for Puritans — Act II 


REDBROOK [/asti/y] Shut up, you fool. [/1e e/bows Drink- 
water into the background]. 

KEARNEY [surprised and rather suspicious] Well, I hardly 
understahnd this. However, if you are Captain Brassbound, 
you can take your place with the rest. [Brasshound joins 
Redbrook and Foknson. Kearney sits down again, after inviting 
Lady Cicely, with a solemn gesture, to take the vacant chair]. 
Now let me see. You are a man of experience in these 
matters, Sir Howard Hallam. If you had to conduct this 
business, how would you start? 

LADY CICELY. He’d call on the counsel for the prosecu- 
tion, wouldnt you, Howard? 

SIR HOWARD. But there is no counsel for the prosecution, 
Cicely, 

LADY CICELY. Oh yes there is. I’m counsel for the 
prosecution. You mustnt let Sir Howard make a speech, 
Captain Kearney: his doctors have positively forbidden 
anything of that sort. Will you begin with me? 

KEARNEY. By your leave, Lady Waynflete, I think I 
will just begin with myself. Sailor fashion will do as well 
here as lawyer fashion. 

LADY CIcELY. Ever so much better, dear Captain Kear- 
ney. [Sélence. Kearney composes himself to speak. She breaks 
out again|. You look so nice as a judge ! 

A general smile. Drinkwater splutters into ahalf suppressed 
laugh. 

REDBROOK [iv a fierce whisper] Shut up, you fool, will 
you? [Again fe pushes him back with a furtive kick], 

SIR HOWARD [remoustrating| Cicely ! 

KEARNEY [grim/y keeping his countenance] Your ladyship’s 
cawmpliments will be in order at a later stage. Captain 
Brassbound: the position is this. My ship, the United 
States cruiser Santiago, was spoken off Mogador lahst 
Thursday by the yacht Redgauntlet. The owner of the 
aforesaid yacht, who is not present through having sprained 
his ahnkle, gave me sertn information. In cawnsequence 
of that information the Santiago made the twenty knots to 


ActIII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 28 5 


Mogador Harbor inside of fifty seven minutes. Before 
noon next day a messenger of mine gave the Cadi of the 
district sertn information. In cawnsequence of that 
information the Cadi stimulated himself tosome ten knots 
an hour, and lodged you and your men in Mogador jail at 
my disposal. The Cadi then went back to his mountain 
fahstnesses ; so we shall not have the pleasure of his com- 
pany here today. Do you follow me so far? 

BRASSBOUND. Yes. I know what you did and what the 
Cadi did. The point is, why did you do it? 

KEARNEY. With doo patience we shall come to that 
presently. Mr Rahnkin: will you kindly take up the 
parable? 

RANKIN. On the very day that Sir Howrrd and Lady 
Cicely started on their excursion J was applied to for 
medicine by a follower of the Sheikh Sidi el Assif. He 
told me I should never see Sir Howrrd again, because his 
master knew he was a Christian and would take him out 
of the hands of Captain Brassbound. I hurried on board 
the yacht and told the owner to scour the coast for a gun- 
boat or cruiser to come into the harbor and put persuasion 
on the authorities. [Sir Howard turns and looks at Rankin 
with a sudden doubt of his integrity as a witness). 

KEARNEY. But I understood from our chahplain that you 
reported Captain Brassbound as in league with the Sheikh 
to deliver Sir Howard up to him. 

RANKIN. ‘Chat was my first hasty conclusion, Captain 
Kearney. But it appears that the compact between them 
was that Captain Brassbound should escort travellers under 
the Sheikh’s protection at a certain payment per head, pro- 
vided none of them were Christians. As J] understand it, 
he tried to smuggle Sir Howrrd through under this com- 
pact, and the Sheikh found him out. 

DRINKWATER. Rawt, gavner. Thets jest ah it wors. The 
Kepn — 

REDBROOK [again suppressing him] Shut up, you fool, I 
tell you. 


286 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


sIR HOWARD [fo Rankin] May I ask have you had any 
conversation with Lady Cicely on this subject? 

RANKIN [zaively] Yes. [Sir Howard grunts emphatically, 
as who should say ‘* I thought so.” Rankin continues, addressing 
the court) May I say how sorry I am that there are so few 
chairs, Captain and gentlemen. 

KEARNEY [with genial American courtesy} Oh, thats all 
right, Mr Rahnkin. Well, I see no harm so far: its human 
fawlly, but not human crime. Now the counsel for the 
prosecution can proceed to prosecute. ‘The floor is yours, 
Lady Waynflete. 

LaDY CICELY [rising] I can only tell you the exact 
truth — 

DRINKWATER [involuntarily] Naow, downt do thet, 
lidy — 

Eee [as before] Shut up, you fool, will you. 

LADY cIcELY. We had a most delightful trip in the 
hills ; and Captain Brassbound’s men could not have been 
nicer-——I must say that for them — until we saw a tribe 
of Arabs — such nice looking men! — and then the poor 
things were frightened. 

KEARNEY. The Arabs? 

Lapy cicELY. No: Arabsarenever frightened. Theescort, 
of course: escorts are always frightened. I wanted to speak 
to the Arab chief; but Captain Brassbound cruelly shot 
his horse ; and the chief shot the Count ; and then — 

KEARNEY. The Count! What Count? 

LaDy ciceLy. Marzo. Thats Marzo [ pointing to Marzo, 
who grins and touches his forehead |. 

KEARNEY [slightly overwhelmed by the unexpected profusion 
of incident and character in her story| Well, what happened 
then? 

LaDy CICELY. Then the escort ran away —all escorts 
do—and dragged me into the castle, which you really 
ought to make them clean and whitewash thoroughly, 
Captain Kearney. Then Captain Brassbound and Sir 
Howard turned out to be related to one another [ Sersation] ; 


ActIII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 287 


and then of course there was a quarrel. The Hallams 
always quarrel. 

SIR HOWARD [rising to protest] Cicely! Captain Kearney: 
this man told me — 

LADY CICELY [swiftly interrupting him] You mustnt say 
what people told you: its not evidence. [Sir Howard 
chokes with indignation]. 

KEARNEY [ca/m/y| Allow the lady to pro-ceed, Sir 
Howard Hallam. 

sIR HOWARD [recovering his self-control with a gulp, and 
resuming his seat) I beg your pardon, Captain Kearney. 

LADY CICELY. Then Sidi came. 

KEARNEY. Sidney! Who was Sidney? 

LaDY cIcELY. No, Sidi. The Sheikh. Sidi el Assif. A 
noble creature, with such a fine face! He fell in love with 
me at first sight — 

SIR HOWARD [remonstrating] Cicely! 

Lapy ciceLy. He did: you know he did. You told me 
to tell the exact truth. 

KEARNEY. I can readily believe it, madam. Proceed. 

LaDy cicELy. Well, that put the poor fellow into a most 
cruel dilemma. You see, he could claim to carry off Sir 
Howard, because Sir Howard is a Christian. But as I am 
only a woman, he had no claim to me. 

KEARNEY [somewhat sternly, suspecting Lady Cicely of 
aristocratic atheism| But you are a Christian woman. 

LaDy cicELY. No: the Arabs dont count women. They 
dont believe we have any souls. 

RANKIN. ‘hat is true, Captain: the poor benighted 
creatures ! 

LADY CICELY. Well, what was he to do? He wasnt in 
love with Sir Howard ; and he was in love with me. So he 
naturally offered to swop Sir Howard for me. Dont you 
think that was nice of him, Captain Kearney ? 

KEARNEY. I should have done the same myself, Lady 
Waynflete. Proceed. 

LADY CiceLy. Captain Brassbound, I must say, was 


288 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


nobleness itself, in spite of the quarrel between himself 
and Sir Howard. He refused to give up either of us, and 
was on the point of fighting for us when in came the Cadi 
with your most amusing and delightful letter, captain, and 
bundled us all back to Mogador after calling my poor Sidi 
the most dreadful names, and putting all the blame on 
Captain Brassbound. So here we are. Now, Howard, isnt 
that the exact truth, every word of it? 

sIR HOWARD. It is the truth, Cicely, and nothing but the 
truth. But the English law requires a witness to tell the 
whole truth. 

LaDy ciceELy. What nonsense! As if anybody ever knew 
the whole truth about anything! [Sitting down, much hurt 
and discouraged] I’m sorry you wish Captain Kearney to 
understand that I am an untruthful witness. 

stiR HOwARD. No: but — 

LADY CICELY. Very well, then: please dont say things 
that convey that impression. 

KEARNEY. But Sir Howard told me yesterday that Captain 
Brassbound threatened to sell him into slavery. 

LADY CICELY [springing up again| Did Sir Howard tell 
you the things he said about Captain Brassbound’s mother? 
[Renewed sensation}. I told you they quarrelled, Captain 
Kearney. I said so, didnt I? 

REDBROOK [crisp/y] Distinctly. [Drinkwater opens his 
mouth to corroborate). Shut up, you fool. 

LADY CICELY. Of course I did. Now, Captain Kearney, 
do you want me—does Sir Howard want me—does 
anybody want me to go into the details of that shocking 
family quarrel? Am I to stand here in the absence of any 
individual of my own sex and repeat the language of two 
angry men? 

KEARNEY [rising impressively] The United States navy 
will have no hahnd in offering any violence to the pure 
instincts of womanhood. Lady Waynflete: I thahnk you 
for the delicacy with which you have given your evidence. 
[Lady Cicely beams on him gratefully and sits down triumphant]. 


ActII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 289 


Captain Brassbound: I shall not hold you respawnsible 
for what you may have said when the English bench ad- 
dressed you in the language of the English forecastle — 
(Sir Howard is about to protest] No, Sir Howard Hallam: 
excuse me. In moments of pahssion I have called a man 
that myself. We are all glahd to find real flesh and blood 
beneath the ermine of the judge. We will now drop a 
subject that should never have been broached in a lady’s 
presence. [He resumes his seat, and adds, in a businesslike 
tone| Is there anything further before we release these men? 

BLUEJACKET. ‘here are some dawcuments handed over 
by the Cadi, sir. He reckoned they were sort of magic 
spells. ‘The chahplain ordered them to be reported to you 
and burnt, with your leave, sir. 

KEARNEY. What are they? 

BLUEJACKET [reading from a list] Four books, torn and 
dirty, made up of separate numbers, value each wawn 
penny, and entitled Sweeny Todd, the Demon Barber of 
London; The Skeleton Horseman — 

DRINKWATER [rusting forward in painful alarm and anxiety | 
It’s maw lawbrary, gavner. Downt burn em. 

KEARNEY. Youll be better without that sort of reading, 
my man. 

DRINKWATER [17 intense distress, appealing to Lady Cicely] 
Downt let em burn em, lidy. They dassent if you horder 
em not to. [With desperate eloquence] Yer dunno wot them 
books 1s to me. ‘They took me aht of the sawdid reeyelli- 
ties of the Worterleoo Rowd. They formed maw mawnd: 
they shaowed me sathink awgher than the squalor of a 
corster’s lawf — 

REDBROOK [eollering oe Oh shut up, you fool. Get out. 
Hold your ton ¢ 

DRINKWATER [ Granta breaking from him] Lidy, lidy: 
sy a word for me. Ev a feelin awt. [His tears choke him: 
Le clasps his hands in dumb entreaty). 

LaDy CICELY [touched] Dont burn his books, Captain. 
Let me give them back to him. 

U 





290 Three Plays for Puritans = Actlll 


KEARNEY. The books will be handed over to the lady. 

DRINKWATER [27 @ small voice| Thenkyer, lidy. [He retires 
among his comrades, snivelling subdued!y), 

REDBROOK [aside to him as he passes] You silly ass, you. 
[Drinkwater sniffs and does not reply]. 

KEARNEY. I suppose you and your men accept this lady’s 
account of what passed, Captain Brassbound. 

BRASSBOUND [g/oomily] Yes. It is true—as far as it goes. 

KEARNEY [impatiently| Do you wawnt it to go any further? 

MARzO. She leave out something. Arab shoot me. She 
nurse me. She cure me. 

KEARNEY. And who are you, pray? 

MARZO [seized with a sanctimonious desire to demonstrate 
is higher nature} Only dam thief. Dam liar. Dam rascal. 
She no lady. 

JoHNSON [revolted by the seeming insult to the English peer- 
age from a low Italian} What? Whats that you say? 

MARZO. No lady nurse dam rascal. Only saint. She 
saint. She get me to heaven—get us all to heaven. We 
do what we like now. 

LaDY cIcELY. Indeed you will do nothing of the sort, 
Marzo, unless you like to behave yourself very nicely 
indeed. What hour did you say we were to lunch at, 
Captain Kearney? 

KEARNEY. You recall me to my dooty, Lady Waynflete. 
My barge will be ready to take off you and Sir Howard to 
the Santiago at one o’clawk. [He rises]. Captain Brass- 
bound: this innquery has elicited no reason why I should 
detain you or your men. I advise you to ahct as escort in 
future to heathens exclusively. Mr Rahnkin: I thahnk 
you in the name of the United States for the hospitahlity 
you have extended to us today; and I invite you to accom- 
pany me bahck to my ship with a view to lunch at half- 
past-one. Gentlemen: we will wait on the governor of 
the gaol on our way to the harbor. [He goes out, follow- 
ing his officers, and followed by the bluejackets and the petty 


officer |. 


Act! Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 291 


SIR HOWARD [to Lady Cice/y] Cicely: in the course of 
my professional career I have met with unscrupulous wit- 
nesses, and, I am sorry to say, unscrupulous counsel also. 
But the combination of unscrupulous witness and un- 
scrupulous counsel I have met today has taken away my 
breath. You have made me your accomplice in defeating 
justice. 

LADY CICELY. Yes: arnt you glad it’s been defeated for 
once? [S4e takes his arm to go out with him), Captain Brass- 
bound: I will come back to say goodbye before I go. [He 
nods gloomily. She goes out with Sir Howard, following the 
Captain and his staff }. 

RANKIN [running to Brassbound and taking both his hands] 
I’m right glad yere cleared. I’ll come back and have a 
crack with ye when yon lunch is over. God bless ye. 
[ He goes out quickly]. 

Brassbound and his men, left by themselves in the room, free 
and unobsercied, go straight out of their senses. They laugh; 
they dance; they embrace one another; they set to partners and 
waltz clumsily; they shake hands repeatedly and maudlinly. 
Three only retain some sort of self-possession. Marzo, proud 
of having successfully thrust himself into a leading part in the 
recent proceedings and made a dramatic speech, inflates his chest, 
curls bis scanty moustache, and throws himself into a swaggering 
pose, chin up and right foot forward, despising the emotional 
English barbarians around him. Brassbound’s eyes and the 
working of his mouth shew that he is infected with the general 
excitement; but be bridles himself savagely. Redbrook, trained 
to affect indifference, grins cynical’y; winks at Brassbound; 
and finally relieves himself by assuming the character of a circus 
ringmaster, flourishing an imaginary whip and egging on the 
rest to wilder exertions. A climax is reached when Drinkwater, 
let loose without a stain on his character for the second time, is 
rapt by belief in his star into an ecstasy in which, scorning all 
partnership, he becomes as it were a whirling dervish, and 
executes so miraculous a clog dance that the others gradually 
cease their slower antics to stare at him. 


292 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


BRASSBOUND [fearing off his hat and striding forward as 
Drinkwater collapses, exhausted, and is picked up by Redbrook] 
Now to get rid of this respectable clobber and feel like a — 
man again. Stand by, all hands, to jump on the captain’s 
tall hat. [He puts the hat down and prepares to jump on it. 
The effect is startling, and takes him completely aback. His 
followers, far from appreciating his iconoclasm, are shocked 
into scandalized sobriety, except Redbrook, who is intensely 
tickled by their prudery). 

DRINKWATER. Naow, look eah, kepn: that ynt rawt. 
Dror a lawn somewhere. 

jouHnson. I say nothin agen a bit of fun, Capn; but lets 
be gentlemen. 

REDBROOK. I suggest to you, Brassbound, that the clobber 
belongs to Lady Sis. Aint you going to give it back to her? 

BRASSBOUND | picking up the hat and brushing the dust off 
it anxiously) ‘Thats true. I’m a fool. All the same, she 
shall not see me again like this. [He pulls off the coat and 
waistcoat together]. Does any man here know how to fold 
up this sort of thing properly? 

REDBROOK. Allow me, governor. [He takes the coat and 
waistcoat to the table, and folds them up}. 

BRASSBOUND [J/oosening his collar and the front of his shirt] 
Brandyfaced Jack: youre looking at these studs. I know 
whats in your mind. 

DRINKWATER [i#dignuantly| Naow yer downt: nort a bit 
on it. Wots in maw mawnd is secrifawce, seolf-secrifawce. 

BRassBouND. If one brass pin of that lady’s property 1s 
missing, I’1] hang you with my own hands at the gaff of 
the Thanksgiving—-and would, if she were lying under 
the guns of all the fleets in Europe. [He pulls off the shirt 
and stands in his blue jersey, with his hair rujfed. He passes 
kis hand through it and exclaims| Now I am half a man. at 
any rate. 

REDBROOK. A horrible combination, governor: church- 
warden from the waist down, and the rest pirate. Lady Sis 
wont speak to you in it. 


ActIIt Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 29 3 


BRassBouND. I’[l change altogether. [He leaves the room 
to get his own trousers). 

REDBROOK [s0ft/y] Look here, Johnson, and gents gener- 
ally. [Ztey gather about him]. Spose she takes him back 
to England! 

MARZO [trying to repeat his success] Im! Im only dam 
pirate. She saint, I tell you—no take any man nowhere. 

JOHNSON [severe/y] Dont you be a ignorant and immoral 
foreigner. [Ze rebuke is well received; and Marzo is 
hustled into the background and extinguished |. She wont take 
him for harm; but she might take him for good. And 
then where should we be? 

DRINKWATER. Brarsbahnd ynt the ownly kepn in the 
world. Wot mikes a kepn is brines an knollidge o lawf. 
It ynt thet thers naow sitch pusson: its thet you dunno 
where to look frim. [TZ¥e implication that he is such a person 
is so intolerable that they receive it with a prolonged burst of 
booing}. 

BRASSBOUND [returning in his otun clothes, getting into Fis 
jacket as he comes). Standby, all. [They start asunder guiltily, 
and wait for orders|. Redbrook: you pack that clobber in 
the lady’s portmanteau, and put it aboard the yacht for 
her. Johnson: you take all hands aboard the Thanksgiving ; 
look through the stores; weigh anchor; and make all ready 
for sea. Then send Jack to wait for me at the slip with a 
boat; and give me a gunfire for a signal. Lose no time. 

JOHNSON. Ay, ay, sir. All aboard, mates. 

ALL. Ay, ay. [Zley rush out tumultuously}. 

When they are gone, Brassbound sits down at the end of the 
table, with his elbows on it and his head on his fists, gloomily 
thinking. Then he takes from the breast pocket of his jacket a 
leather case, from which he extracts a scrappy packet of dirty 
letters and newspaper cuttings. These he throws on the table. 
Next comes a photograph in acheap frame. He throws it down 
untenderly beside the papers; then folds his arms, and is looking 
at it with grim distaste when Lady Cicely enters. His back 
is towards Fer; and he does not hear her. Perceiving this, 


294 Three Plays for Puritans = ActIII 


she shuts the door loudly enough to attract his attention, He 
Starts up. 

LADY CICELY [costing to the opposite end of the table] So 
youve taken off all my beautiful clothes ! 

BRAssBoUND. Your brother’s, you mean. A man should 
wear his own clothes; and a man should tell his own lies. 
I’m sorry you had to tell mine for me today. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, women spend half their lives telling 
little lies for men, and sometimes big ones. We’re used 
to it. But mind! I dont admit that I told any today. 

BRassBouND. How did you square my uncle? 

LADY cicELYy. I dont understand the expression. 

BRASsBOUND. I mean — 

LADY CICELY. I’m afraid we havnt time to go into what 
you mean before lunch. I want to speak to you about your 
future. May I? 

BRASSBOUND [darkening a little, but politely] Sit down. 
[She sits down. So does he}. 

LADY cIcELY. What are your plans? 

BRASSBOUND. I have no plans. You will hear a gun fired 
in the harbor presently. ‘That will mean that the Thanks- 
giving’s anchor’s weighed and that she is waiting for her 
captain to put out to sea. And her captain doesnt know 
now whether to turn her head north or south. 

LaDy cicELy. Why not north for England? 

BRassBouND. Why not south for the Pole? 

LADY CICELY. But you must do something with yourself? 

BRASSBOUND [settling himself with his fists and elbows weight- 
ily on the table and looking straight and powerfully at her| Look 
you: when you and I first met, I was a man witha purpose. 
I stood alone: I saddled no friend, woman or man, with 
that purpose, because it was against law, against religion, 
against my own credit and safety. But I believed in it; 
and I stood alone for it, as a man should stand for his 
belief, against law and religion as much as against wicked- 
ness and selfishness. Whatever I may be, I am none of 
your fairweather sailors thatll do nothing for their creed 


ActIIl Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 295 


but go to Heaven for it. I was ready to go to hell for 
mine. Perhaps you dont understand that. 

LaDy cicELY. Oh bless you, yes. It’s so very like a 
certain sort of man. 

BRassBouND. I daresay; but I’ve not met many of that 
sort. Anyhow, that was what I was like. I dont say I 
was happy in it; but I wasnt unhappy, because I wasnt 
drifting. I was steering a course and had work in hand. 
Give a man health and a course to steer; and he’ll never 
stop to trouble about whether he’s happy or not. 

LADY CICELY. Sometimes he wont even stop to trouble 
about whether other people are happy or not. 

BRassBouND. I dont deny that: nothing makes a man so 
selfish as work. But I was not self-seeking: it seemed to 
me that I had put justice above self. I tell you life meant 
something to me then. Do you see that dirty little bundle 
of scraps of paper? 

LADY CICELY. What are they? 

BRASSBOUND. Accounts cut out of newspapers. Speeches 
made by my uncle at charitable dinners, or sentencing men 
to death—pious, highminded speeches by a man who was 
to me a thief and a murderer! To my mind they were 
more weighty, more momentous, better revelations of the 
wickedness of law and respectability than the book of the 
prophet Amos. What are they now? [He quietly tears the 
newspaper cuttings into little fragments and throws them away, 
looking fixedly at her meanwhile). 

LADY CICELY. Well, thats a comfort, at all events. 

BRASSBOUND. Yes ; but it’s a part of my life gone: your 
doing, remember. What have I left? See here! [4e takes 
up the letters} the letters my uncle wrote to my mother, 
with her comments on their cold drawn insolence, their 
treachery and cruelty. And the piteous letters she wrote 
to him later on, returned unopened. Must they go too? 

LADY CICELY [wmeasily] I cant ask you to destroy your 
mother’s letters. 

BRASSBOUND. Why not, now that you have taken the 


296 Three Plays for Puritans = ActIIL 


meaning out of them? [He tears them]. Is that a comfort 
too? 

LaDy CICELY. It’s a little sad ; but perhaps it is best so. 

BRASSBOUND. That leaves one relic: her portrait. [He 
plucks the photograph out of its cheap case]. 

LADY CICELY [with vivid curiosity] Oh, let me see. [He 
hands it to her. Before she can control herself, her expression 
changes to one of unmistakeable disappointment and repulsion]. 

BRASSBOUND [with a single sardonic cachinnation| Ha! 
You expected something better than that. Well, youre 
right. Her face does not look well opposite yours. 

LADY CICELY [distressed] I said nothing. 

BRASSBOUND. What could you say? [He takes back the 
portrait: she relinquishes it without a word. He looks at it; 
shakes his head; and takes it quietly between his finger ana 
thumb to tear it). 

LADY CICELY [staying his hand] Oh, not your mother’s 
picture ! 

BRAssBouND. If that were your picture, would you like 
your son to keep it for younger and better women to see? 

LaDy CICELY [releasing his hand| Oh, you are dreadful ! 
Tear it, tear it. [She covers her eyes for a moment to shut out 
the sight]. 

BRASSBOUND [fearing it qguietly| You killed her for me 
that day in the castle ; and I am better without her. [He 
throws away the fragments]. Now everything is gone. You 
have taken the old meaning out of my life; but you have 
put no new meaning into it. I can see that you have some 
clue to the world that makes all its difficulties easy for 
you ; but I’m not clever enough to seize it. Youve lamed 
me by shewing me that I take life the wrong way when 
I’m left to myself. 

LADY CICELY. Oh no. Why do you say that? 

BRASSBOUND. What else can I say? See what Ive done! 
My uncle is no worse a man than myself — better, most 
likely ; for he has a better head and a higher place. Well, 
I took him for a villain out of a storybook. My mother 


ActlI Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 297 


would have opened anyvvdy else’s eyes: she shut mine. 
I’m a stupider man than Brandyfaced Jack even ; for he 
got his romantic nonsense out of his penny numbers and 
such like trash ; but I got just the same nonsense out of 
life and experience. [S/aking his -ead| It was vulgar — 
vulgar. I see that now; for youve opened my eyes to the 
past ; but what good is that for the future? What am IJ to 
do? Where am I to go? 

LADY CICELY. It’s quite simple. Do whatever you like. 
Thats what I always do. 

BRASSBOUND. [hat answer is no good to me. What I 
like is to have something to do; and I have nothing. You 
might as well talk like the missionary and tell me to do my 
duty. 

Lapy ciceLy [guzick/y] Oh no thank you. Ive had quite 
enough of your duty, and Howard’s duty. Where would 
you both be now if I'd let you do it? 

BRASSBOUND. We’d have been somewhere, at all events. 
It seems to me that now I am nowhere. 

LADY CICELY. But arnt you coming back to England 
with us? 

BRASSBOUND. What for? 

LADY CICELY. Why, to make the most of your oppor- 
tunities. 

BRASSBOUND. What opportunities ? 

LADY CICELY. Dont you understand that when you are 
the nephew of a great bigwig, and have influential con- 
nexions, and good friends among them, lots of things can 
be done for you that are never done for ordinary ship 
captains? 

BRassBounD. Ah; but I’m not an aristocrat, you see. 
And like most poor men, I’m proud. I dont like being 
patronized. 

LaDy cicELY. What is the use of saying that? In my 
world, which is now your world—our world — getting 
patronage is the whole art of life. A man cant have a 
career without it. 


298 Three Plays for Puritans = Act III 


BRASSBOUND. In my world a man can navigate a ship and 
get his living by it. 

LaDY CICELY. Oh, I see youre one of the Idealists — 
the Impossibilists! We have them, too, occasionally, in 
our world, There’s only one thing to be done with them. 

BRASSBOUND. Whats that? 

LaDY cicELy. Marry them straight off to some girl with 
enough money for them, and plenty of sentiment. Thats 
their fate. 

BRASSBOUND. Youve spoiled even that chance for me. 
Do you think I could look at any ordinary woman after 
you? You seem to be able to make me do pretty well 
what you like; but you cant make me marry anybody but 
yourself. 

LaDY CICELY. Do you know, Captain Paquito, that Ive 
married no less than seventeen men [ Brassbound stares] to 
other women. And they all opened the subject by saying 
that they would never marry anybody but me. 

BRASSBOUND. Then I shall be the first man you ever 
found to stand to his word. 

LADY CICELY [ part pleased, part amused, part sympattetic] 
Do you really want a wife? 

BRASSBOUND. I want a commander. Dont undervalue 
me: I am a good man when I have a good leader. I have 
courage: I have determination: I’m not a drinker: [ 
can command a schooner and a shore party if I cant com- 
mand a ship or an army. When work is put upon me, I 
turn neither to save my life nor to fill my pocket. Gordon 
trusted me; and he never regretted it. If you trust me, 
you shant regret it. All the same, theres something want- 
ing in me: I suppose I’m stupid. 

LADY CICELY. Oh, youre not stupid. 

BRassBouND. Yes] am. Since you saw me for the first 
time in that garden, youve heard me say nothing clever. 
And Ive heard you say nothing that didnt make me laugh, 
or make me feel friendly, as well as telling me what to think 
and what to do. Thats what I mean by real cleverness. 


ActIII Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 299 


Well, I havnt got it. I can give an order when I know 
what order to give. I can make men obey it, willing or 
unwilling. But I’m stupid, I tell you: stupid. When 
theres no Gordon to command me, I cant think of what to 
do. Left to myself, Ive become half a brigand. I can kick 
that little gutterscrub Drinkwater ; but I find myself doing 
what he puts into my head because I cant think of any- 
thing else. When you came, I took your orders as natu- 
rally as I took Gordon’s, though I little thought my next 
commander would be a woman. I want to take service 
under you. And theres no way in which that can be done 
except marrying you. Will you let me do it? 

LADY CICELY. I’m afraid you dont quite know how odd 
a match it would be for me according to the ideas of Eng- 
lish society. 

BRASSBOUND. I care nothing about English society : let 
it mind its own business. 

LADY CICELY [rising, a little alarmed] Captain Paquito: 
I am not in love with you. 

BRASSBOUND [a/so rising, with his gaze still steadfastly on 
fer| I didnt suppose you were: the commander is not 
usually in love with his subordinate. 

LaDy cicELY. Nor the subordinate with the com- 
mander. 

BRASSBOUND [assenting firmly} Nor the subordinate with 
the commander. 

LADY CICELY [/earning for the first time in her life what 
terror is, as she finds that he is unconsciously mesmerizing her] 
Oh, you are dangerous ! 

BRASSBOUND. Come: are you in love with anybody else? 
Thats the question. 

LADY CICELY [shaking Ler fead| I have never been in 
love with any real person ; and I never shall. How could 
I manage people if I had that mad little bit of self left in 
me? ‘Thats my secret. 

BRASSBOUND. ‘Then throw away the last: bit-of -self, 
Marry me. 


300 Three Plays for Puritans = ActIII 


Lavy ciceLy [vainly struggling to recall her wandering 
will| Must 1? 

BRASSBOUND. There is no must. You can. I ask you to. 
My fate depends on it. 

LaDY CICELY. It’s frightful; for I dont mean to—dont 
wish to. 

BRASSBOUND. But you will. 

LADY CICELY [quite lost, slowly stretches out her hand to give it 
to him] 1— [Gunfire from the Thanksgiving. His eyes dilate. 
It wakes ler from her trance) What is that? 

BRASSBOUND. It is farewell. Rescue for you—safety, 
freedom ! You were made to be something better than the 
wife of Black Paquito. [He kneels and takes her hands] You 
can do no more for me now: I have blundered somehow 
on the secret of command at last [4e kisses her hands): 
thanks for that, and for a man’s power and purpose restored 
and righted. And farewell, farewell, farewell. 

LADY CICELY [ia a strange ecstasy, holding his hands as te 
rises] Oh, farewell. With my heart’s deepest feeling, fare- 
well, farewell. 

BRassBoUND. With my heart’s noblest honor and triumph, 
farewell. [He turns and fites]. 

LADY CICELY. How glorious! how glorious! And what 
an escape | 


NOTES TO CAPTAIN BRASSBOUND'S 
CONVERSION 


Sources of the Play. 


I claim as a notable merit in the authorship of this play 
that I have been intelligent enough to steal its scenery, its 
surroundings, its atmosphere, its geography, its knowledge 
of the east, its fascinating Cadis and Krooboys and Sheikhs 
and mud castles from an excellent book of philosophic 
travel and vivid adventure entitled Mogreb -el - Acksa 
(Morocco the Most Holy) by Cunninghame Graham. 
My own first hand knowledge of Morocco 1s based on a 
morning’s walk through Tangier, and a cursory observation 
of the coast through a binocular from the deck of an Orient 
steamer, both later in date than the writing of the play. 

Cunninghame Graham is the hero of his own book ; but 
I have not made him the hero of my play, because so in- 
credible a personage must have destroyed its likelihood — 
such as it is. There are moments when I do not myself 
believe in his existence. And yet he must be real; for I 
have seen him with these eyes; and I am one of the few men 
living who can decipher the curious alphabet in which he 
writes his private letters. The man is on public record too. 
The battle of Trafalgar Square, in which he personally and 
bodily assailed civilization as represented by the concen- 


302 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 


trated military and constabular forces of the capital of the 
world, can scarcely be forgotten by the more discreet 
spectators, of whom I was one. On that occasion civiliza- 
tion, qualitatively his inferior, was quantitatively so hugely 
in excess of him that it put him in prison. but had not sense 
enough to keep him there. Yet his getting out of prison 
was as nothing compared to his getting into the House 
of Commons. How he did it I know not; but the thing 
certainly happened, somehow. ‘That he made pregnant 
utterances as a legislator may be taken as proved by the 
keen philosophy of the travels and tales he has since 
tossed to us; but the House, strong in stupidity, did not 
understand him until in an inspired moment he voiced a 
universal impulse by bluntly damning its hypocrisy. Of 
all the eloquence of that silly parliament, there remains 
only one single damn. It has survived the front bench 
speeches of the eighties as the word of Cervantes survives 
the oraculations of the Dons and Deys who put him, too, 
in prison. The shocked House demanded that he should 
withdraw his cruel word. “I never withdraw,” said he ; 
and I promptly stole the potent phrase for the sake of its 
perfect style, and used it as a cockade for the Bulgarian 
hero of Arms and the Man. The theft prospered ; and I 
naturally take the first opportunity of repeating it. In what 
other Lepantos besides Trafalgar Square Cunninghame 
Graham has fought, I cannot tell. He is a fascinating 
mystery to a sedentary person like myself. ‘The horse, a 
dangerous animal whom, when I cannot avoid, I propitiate 
with apples and sugar, he bestrides and dominates fear- 
lessly, yet with a true republican sense of the rights of the 
fourlegged fellowcreature whose martyrdom, and man’s 
shame therein, he has told most powerfully in his Calvary, 
a tale with an edge that will cut the soft cruel hearts and 
strike fire from the hard kind ones. He handles the other 
lethal weapons as familiarly as the pen: medieval sword 
and modern Mauser are to him as umbrellas and kodaks 
are to me. His tales of adventure have the true Cer- 


Notes 303 


vantes touch of the man who has been there — so refresh- 
ingly different from the scenes imagined by bloody-minded 
clerks who escape from their servitude into literature to 
tell us how men and cities are conceived in the counting 
house and the volunteer corps. He is, I understand, a 
Spanish hidalgo: hence the superbity of his portrait by 
Lavery (Velasquez being no longer available). He is, I 
know, a Scotch laird. How he contrives to be authentic- 
ally the two things at the same time is no more intelligible 
to me than the fact that everything that has ever happened 
to him seems to have happened in Paraguay or Texas 
instead of in Spain or Scotland. He is, I regret to add, an 
impenitent and unashamed dandy : such boots, such a hat, 
would have dazzled D’Orsay himself. With that hat he 
once saluted me in Regent St. when I was walking with 
my mother. Her interest was instantly kindled ; and the 
following conversation ensued. ‘‘ Whois that?” ‘Cun- 
ninghame Graham.” ‘Nonsense ! Cunninghame Graham is 
one of your Socialists : that man isa gentleman.” This is the 
punishment of vanity,a fault I have myself always avoided, 
as I find conceit less troublesome and much less expensive. 
Later on somebody told him of Tarudant, a city in 
Morocco in which no Christian had ever set foot. Con- 
cluding at once that it must be an exceptionally desirable 
place to live in, he took ship and horse ; changed the hat 
for a turban ; and made straight for the sacred city, via 
Mogador. How he fared, and how he fell into the hands 
of the Cadi of Kintafi, who rightly held that there was 
more danger to Islam in one Cunninghame Graham than 
in a thousand Christians, may be learnt from his account 
of it in Mogreb-el-Acksa, without which Captain Brass- 
bound’s Conversion would never have been written. 

I am equally guiltless of any exercise of invention con- 
cerning the story of the West Indian estate which so very 
nearly serves as a peg to hang Captain Brassbound. To 
Mr. Frederick Jackson of Hindhead, who, against all his 
principles, encourages and abets me in my career as a 


304 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 


dramatist, 1 owe my knowledge of those main facts of the 
case which became public through an attempt to make the 
House of Commons act on them. This being so, I must 
add that the character of Captain Brassbound’s mother, 
like the recovery of the estate by the next heir, is an in- 
terpolation of my own. It is not, however, an invention. 
One of the evils of the pretence that our institutions repre- 
sent abstract principles of justice instead of being mere 
social scaffolding 1s that persons of a certain temperament 
take the pretence seriously, and, when the law is on the 
side of injustice, will not accep the situation, and are 
driven mad by their vain struggle against it. Dickens has 
drawn the type in his Man from Shropshire in Bleak 
House. Most public men and all lawyers have been ap- 
pealed to by victims of this sense of injustice—the most 
unhelpable of afflictions in a society like ours. 


English and American Dialects. 


The fact that English is spelt conventionally and not 
phonetically makes the art of recording speech almost im- 
possible. What is more, it places the modern dramatist, 
who writes for America as well as England, in a most 
trying position. ‘Take for example my American captain 
and my English lady. I have spelt the word conduce, as 
uttered by the American captain, as cawndooce, to suggest 
(very roughly) the American pronunciation to English 
readers. Then why not spell the same word, when uttered 
by Lady Cicely, as kerndewce, to suggest the English pro- 
nunciation to American readers? ‘To this I have absolutely 
no defence: I can only plead that an author who lives in 
England necessarily loses his consciousness of the peculiar- 
ities of English speech, and sharpens his consciousness of 
the points in which Ame-ican speech differs from it; so 
that it is more convenient to leave English peculiarities to 
be recorded by American authors. I must, however, most 


Notes 305 


vehemently disclaim any intention of suggesting that English 
pronunciation is authoritative and correct. My own tongue 
is neither American English nor English English, but Irish 
English ; so I am as nearly impartial in the matter as it is 
in human nature to be. Besides, there is no standard English 
pronunciation any more than there is an American one: 
in England every county has its catchwords, just as no 
doubt every State in the Union has. I cannot believe that 
the pioneer American, for example, can spare time to learn 
that last refinement of modern speech, the exquisite diph- 
thong, a farfetched combination of the French eu and the 
English e, with which a New Yorker pronounces such 
words as world, bird &c. I have spent months without 
success in trying to achieve glibness with it. 

To Felix Drinkwater also I owe some apology for im- 
plying that all his vowel pronunciations are unfashionable. 
They are very far from being so. As far as my social 
experience goes (and I have kept very mixed company) 
there is no class in English society in which a good deal 
of Drinkwater pronunciation does not pass unchallenged 
save by the expert phonetician. This is no mere rash and 
ignorant jibe of my own at the expense of my English 
neighbors. Academic authority in the matter of English 
speech is represented at present by Mr Henry Sweet, 
of the University of Oxford, whose Elementarbuch des ge- 
sproctenen Englisch, translated into his native language for 
the use of British islanders as a Primer of Spoken English, 
is the most accessible standard work on the subject. In 
such words as plum, come, humbug, up, gun, etc., Mr 
Sweet’s evidence is conclusive. Ladies and gentlemen in 
Southern England pronounce them as plam, kam, hambag, 
ap, gan, etc., exactly as Felix Drinkwater does. I could 
not claim Mr Sweet’s authority if I dared to whisper that 
such coster English as the rather pretty dahn tahn for 
down town, or the decidedly ugly cowcew for cocoa is 
current in very polite circles. ‘The entire nation, costers 
and all, would undoubtedly repudiate any such pronuncia- 

x 


306 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 


tion as vulgar. All the same, if I were to attempt to 
represent current ‘‘smart” Cockney speech as I have 
attempted to represent Drinkwater’s, without the niceties 
of Mr Sweet’s Romic alphabets, I am afraid I should often 
have to write dahn tahn and cowcow as being at least 
nearer to the actual sound than down town and cocoa. 
And this would give such offence that I should have to 
leave the country ; for nothing annoys a native speaker of 
English more than a faithful setting down in phonetic 
spelling of the sounds he utters. He imagines that a 
departure from conventional spelling indicates a departure 
from the correct standard English of good society. Alas! 
this correct standard English of good society is unknown 
to phoneticians. It is only one of the many figments that 
bewilder our poor snobbish brains. No such thing exists ; 
but what does that matter to people trained from infancy 
to make a point of honor of belief in abstractions and 
incredibilities? And so I am compelled to hide Lady 
Cicely’s speech under the veil of conventional orthography. 

I need not shield Drinkwater, because he will never 
read my book. So I have taken the liberty of making a 
special example of him, as far as that can be done without 
a phonetic alphabet, for the benefit of the mass of readers 
outside London who still form their notions of cockney 
dialect on Sam Weller. When I came to London in 1876, 
the Sam Weller dialect had passed away so completely that 
I should have given it up as a literary fiction if I had not 
discovered it surviving in a Middlesex village, and heard of 
it from an Essex one. Some time in the eighties the late 
Andrew Tuer called attention in the Pall Mall Gazette to 
several peculiarities of modern cockney, and to the obsoles- 
cence of the Dickens dialect that was still being copied from 
book to book by authors who never dreamt of using their 
ears, much less of training them to listen. Then came Mr 
Anstey’s cockney dialogues in Punch, a great advance, and 
Mr Chevalier’s coster songs and patter. The Tompkins 
verses contributed by Mr Barry Pain to the London Daily 


Notes B07 


Chronicle also did something to bring the literary con- 
vention for cockney English up to date. But Tompkins 
sometimes perpetrated horrible solecisms. He would pro- 
nounce face as fice, accurately enough ; but he would rhyme 
it quite impossibly to nice, which ‘Tompkins would have 
pronounced as nawce: for example Mawl Enn Rowd for 
Mile End Road. This aw for i, which I have made Drink- 
water use, 1s the latest stage of the old diphthongal 01, which 
Mr Chevalier still uses. Irish, Scotch and north country 
readers must remember that Drinkwater’s rs are absolutely 
unpronounced when they follow a vowel, though they 
modify the vowel very considerably. ‘Thus, though luggage 
is pronounced by him as laggige, turn is not pronounced 
as tarn, but as teun with the eu sounded as in French. 
The London r seems thoroughly understood in America, 
with the result, however, that the use of the r by Artemus 
Ward and other American dialect writers causes Irish 
people to misread them grotesquely. I once saw the pro- 
nunciation of malheureux represented in a cockney 
handbook by mal-err-err: not at all a bad makeshift to 
instruct a Londoner, but out of the question elsewhere in 
the British Isles. In America, representations of English 
speech dwell too derisively on the dropped or interpolated 
h. American writers have apparently not noticed the fact 
that the south English h is not the same as the never- 
dropped Irish and American h, and that to ridicule an 
Englishman for dropping it is as absurd as to ridicule the 
whole French and Italian nation for doing the same. The 
American h, helped out by a general agreement to pro- 
nounce wh as hw, is tempestuously audible, and cannot be 
dropped without being immediately missed. ‘The London 
h is so comparatively quiet at all times, and so completely 
inaudible in wh, that it probably fell out of use simply by 
escaping the ears of children learning to speak. However 
that may be, it is kept alive only by the literate classes 
who are reminded constantly of its existence by seeing it 


on paper. Roughly speaking, I should say that in England 


308 Captain Brassbound’s Conversion 


he who bothers about his hs is a fool, and he who ridicules 
a dropped ha snob. As to the interpolated h, my experience 
as a London vestryman has convinced me that it is often 
effective as a means of emphasis, and that the London 
language would be poorer without it. ‘The objection to it 
is no more respectable than the objection of a street boy 
to a black man or to a lady in knickerbockers. 

I have made only the most perfunctory attempt to re- 
present the dialect of the missionary. There is no literary 
notation for the grave music of good Scotch. 


BLacKpDowN. 
August 1900. 


THE END 


Printed by R. & R. Crark, Limttep, Adinburgh. 


<<, 





RETURN CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT = 
TOmemp = 202 Main Library 


-OAN PERIOD 1 
HOME USE 









ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

1-month loans may be renewed by calling 642-3405 

6-month loans may be recharged by bringing books to Circulation Desk 
Renewals and recharges may be made 4 days prior to due date 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 
REC. CIR. JUN 03 ‘3 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 


FORM NO. DD6, 60m, 12/780 BERKELEY, CA 94720 5 
$ 


BERKELEY LIBRARIES 


COSSebb1L40 


‘ id 
te ge -(~ eh ie gl el 
. = 


—_ 


= Oe ll nn - -~ 
i Ne ee ae td “oe oe cee ol 
eae . = ~—* 


nl 
Se eed 





are hee Pad 


